Abaca,n., The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis
Aback,adv., Toward the back or rear; backward.
Abaci,pl. , of Abacus
Abada,n., The rhinoceros.
Abaft,prep., Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. 
Aband,v. t., To abandon.
Abase,a., To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye. 
Abash,v. t., To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit. 
Abate,v. t., To beat down; to overthrow.
Abbey,n., A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic building or buildings. 
Abbot,n., The superior or head of an abbey.
Abdal,n., A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.
Abeam,adv., On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side. 
Abear,v. t., To bear; to behave.
Abele,n., The white poplar (Populus alba
Aberr,v. i., To wander; to stray.
Abhal,n., The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.
Abhor,v. t., To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to extremity; to loathe.
Abode,imp. & p. p., of Abide
Abide,v. i., To wait; to pause; to delay.
Abies,n., A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus. 
Abime,n., Alt. of Abyme
Abyme,n., A abyss.
Abler,a., comp. of Able.
Ablet,, Alt. of Ablen
Ablen,, A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus
Abnet,n., The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
Abode,, pret. of Abide.
Aboma,n., A large South American serpent (Boa aboma
Aboon,prep., and adv. Above.
Abord,n., Manner of approaching or accosting; address.
Abort,v. i., To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.
About,prep., Around; all round; on every side of.
Above,prep., In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Abray,v., See Abraid.
Absis,n., See Apsis.
Abuna,n., The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church. 
Abuse,v. t., To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's authority. 
Abuzz,a., In a buzz; buzzing.
Abysm,n., An abyss; a gulf.
Abyss,n., A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep, immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit. 
Acari,pl. , of Acarus
Accoy,v. t., To render quiet; to soothe.
Acerb,a., Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp and harsh. 
Ached,imp. & p. p., of Ache
Acini,pl. , of Acinus
Acock,adv., In a cocked or turned up fashion.
Acold,a., Cold.
Acorn,n., The fruit of the oak, being an oval nut growing in a woody cup or cupule. 
Acred,a., Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition; as, large-acred men. 
Acrid,a., Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent; as, acrid salts. 
Acted,imp. & p. p., of Act
Acton,n., A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later
Actor,n., One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer. 
Acute,a., Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf. 
Adact,v. t., To compel; to drive.
Adage,n., An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb. 
Adapt,a., Fitted; suited.
Adays,adv., By day, or every day; in the daytime. 
Added,imp. & p. p., of Add
Addax,n., One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, / Oryx, nasomaculatus
Adder,n., One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding numbers. 
Addle,n., Liquid filth; mire.
Adeem,v. t., To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some other gift. 
Adeps,n., Animal fat; lard.
Adept,n., One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as, adepts in philosophy. 
Adieu,interj. & adv., Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.
Admit,v. t., To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind; to admit evidence in the trial of a cause. 
Admix,v. t., To mingle with something else; to mix.
Adobe,n., An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico. 
Adoor,, Alt. of Adoors
Adopt,v. t., To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend, citizen, etc.; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents
Adore,v. t., To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to honor as deity or as divine.
Adorn,v. t., To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.
Adown,adv., From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on the ground. 
Adrad,p. a., Put in dread; afraid.
Adrip,adv. & a., In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. 
Adult,a., Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age. 
Adunc,a., Alt. of Adunque
Adure,v. t., To burn up.
Adust,a., Inflamed or scorched; fiery.
Adyta,pl. , of Adytum
Aegis,n., A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a protection.
Aerie,n., The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or resting place perched like an eagle's nest. 
Affix,v. t., To subjoin, annex, or add at the close or end; to append to; to fix to any part of; as, to affix a syllable to a word; to affix a seal to an instrument; to affix one's name to a writing. 
Afire,adv. & a., On fire.
Aflat,adv., Level with the ground; flat.
Aflow,adv. & a., Flowing.
Afoam,adv. & a., In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam. 
Afoot,adv., On foot.
Afore,adv., Before.
Afoul,adv. & a., In collision; entangled.
Afric,a., African.
Afrit,n., Alt. of Afreet
After,a., Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period of life. 
Again,adv., In return, back; as, bring us word again. 
Agama,n., A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable substances; also, one of these lizards. 
Agami,n., A South American bird (Psophia crepitans
Agape,adv. & a., Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention. 
Agasp,adv. & a., In a state of gasping.
Agast,v. t., Alt. of Aghast
Agate,adv., On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate. 
Agaty,a., Of the nature of agate, or containing agate. 
Agave,n., A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceae
Aging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Age
Agend,n., See Agendum.
Agent,a., Acting; -- opposed to patient, or sustaining, action. 
Agger,n., An earthwork; a mound; a raised work.
Aggry,a., Alt. of Aggri
Aggri,a., Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in Africa. 
Agile,a., Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue. 
Agios,pl. , of Agio
Agist,v. t., To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and collecting the money for the same. 
Aglet,n., Alt. of Aiglet
Agley,adv., Aside; askew.
Aglow,adv. & a., In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow. 
Agnus,n., Agnus Dei.
Agone,a. & adv., Ago.
Agony,n., Violent contest or striving.
Agood,adv., In earnest; heartily.
Agora,n., An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the market place, in an ancient Greek city. 
Agree,adv., In good part; kindly.
Agrin,adv. & a., In the act of grinning.
Agrom,n., A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves. 
Agued,imp. & p. p., of Ague
Agush,adv. & a., In a gushing state.
Ahead,adv., In or to the front; in advance; onward.
Aheap,adv., In a heap; huddled together.
Ahigh,adv., On high.
Ahold,adv., Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. 
Ahull,adv., With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to ships in a storm. See Hull, n. 
Aided,imp. & p. p., of Aid
Aider,n., One who, or that which, aids. 
Aigre,a., Sour.
Ailed,imp. & p. p., of Ail
Aimed,imp. & p. p., of Aim
Aimer,n., One who aims, directs, or points. 
Ain't,, A contraction for are not and am not; also used for is not. [Colloq. or illiterate speech]. See An't.
Aired,imp. & p. p., of Air
Airer,n., One who exposes to the air.
Aisle,n., A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part, called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall. 
Aitch,n., The letter h or H.
Akene,n., Same as Achene.
Aknee,adv., On the knee.
Aknow,, Earlier form of Acknow.
Alack,interj., An exclamation expressive of sorrow.
Aland,adv., On land; to the land; ashore.
Alarm,n., A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy. 
Alary,a., Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped. 
Alate,adv., Lately; of late.
Alban,n., A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-percha by the action of alcohol or ether.
Albee,conj., Although; albeit.
Album,n., A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of names, etc. 
Albyn,n., Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland.
Alday,adv., Continually.
Alder,n., A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or small trees. 
Aller,a., Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all, alderwisest, wisest of all. 
Aleak,adv. & a., In a leaking condition.
Alert,a., Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.
Alfet,n., A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.
Algae,pl. , of Alga
Algal,a., Pertaining to, or like, algae. 
Algid,a., Cold; chilly.
Algol,n., A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus, remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness. 
Algor,n., Cold; chilliness.
Algum,n., Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable
Alias,adv., Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias Simpson. 
Alibi,n., The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an alibi. 
Alien,a., Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies, property, shores. 
Alife,adv., On my life; dearly.
Align,v. t., To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline.
Alike,a., Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.
Aline,v. t., To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.
Alish,a., Like ale; as, an alish taste. 
Alive,a., Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant which is alive. 
Allah,n., The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the Mohammedans generally. 
Allay,v. t., To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the passions. 
Aller,a., Same as Alder, of all. 
Alley,n., A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way. 
Allis,n., The European shad (Clupea vulgaris
Allod,n., See Allodium.
Alloo,v. t. / i., To incite dogs by a call; to halloo.
Allot,v. t., To distribute by lot.
Allow,v. t., To praise; to approve of; hence, to sanction. 
Alloy,v. t., Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc. But when mercury is one of the metals, the compound is called an amalgam. 
Allyl,n., An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic and mustard. 
Almah,n., Same as Alme.
Alman,n., A German.
Almeh,n., An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.
Almry,n., See Almonry.
Almug,n., Alt. of Algum
Algum,n., A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11
Aloes,pl. , of Aloe
Aloft,adv., On high; in the air; high above the ground.
Alogy,n., Unreasonableness; absurdity.
Aloin,n., A bitter purgative principle in aloes.
Alone,a., Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single; solitary; -- applied to a person or thing. 
Along,adv., By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.
Aloof,n., Same as Alewife.
Alose,v. t., To praise.
Aloud,adv., With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly. 
Alpen,a., Of or pertaining to the Alps.
Alpha,n., The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and hence used to denote the beginning. 
Alpia,n., The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis
Altar,n., A raised structure (as a square or oblong erection of stone or wood
Alter,v. t., To make otherwise; to change in some respect, either partially or wholly; to vary; to modify. 
Altho,conj., Although.
Altos,pl. , of Alto
Alula,n., A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.
Alure,n., A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.
Alvei,pl. , of Alveus
Alway,adv., Always.
Amain,n., With might; with full force; vigorously; violently; exceedingly.
Amass,v. t., To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of; to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words or phrases. 
Amate,v. t., To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt.
Amaze,v. t., To bewilder; to stupefy; to bring into a maze.
Amber,n., A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By friction, it becomes strongly electric. 
Ambit,n., Circuit or compass.
Amble,v. i., To go at the easy gait called an amble; -- applied to the horse or to its rider.
Ambos,pl. , of Ambo
Ambon,n., Same as Ambo.
Ambry,n., In churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for utensils, vestments, etc. 
Ameer,n., Alt. of Amir
Amend,v. t., To change or modify in any way for the better
Ament,n., A species of inflorescence; a catkin.
Amess,n., Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice. 
Amice,n., A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church while saying Mass. 
Amide,n., A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical.
Amido,a., Containing, or derived from, amidogen. 
Amine,n., One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom or radical.
Amiss,adv., Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.
Amity,n., Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories. 
Among,prep., Alt. of Amongst
Amort,a., As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed.
Amour,n., Love; affection.
Amove,v. t., To remove, as a person or thing, from a position. 
Ample,a., Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended. 
Amply,adv., In an ample manner.
Ampul,n., Same as Ampulla, 2. 
Ampyx,n., A woman's headband (sometimes of metal
Amsel,n., Alt. of Amzel
Amzel,n., The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus
Amuck,a. & adv., In a frenzied and reckless manner.
Amuse,v., To occupy or engage the attention of; to lose in deep thought; to absorb; also, to distract; to bewilder. 
Amyss,n., Same as Amice, a hood or cape. 
Anaks,n. pl., A race of giants living in Palestine.
Ancle,n., See Ankle.
Ancon,n., The olecranon, or the elbow. 
Anear,prep. & adv., Near.
Anele,v. t., To anoint.
Anent,a., Over against; as, he lives anent the church. 
Angel,n., A messenger.
Anger,n., Trouble; vexation; also, physical pain or smart of a sore, etc. 
Angle,n., The inclosed space near the point where two lines meet; a corner; a nook.
Angor,n., Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression. 
Angry,superl., Troublesome; vexatious; rigorous.
Anigh,prep. & adv., Nigh.
Anile,a., Old-womanish; imbecile.
Anime,a., Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the eyes of a rapacious animal.
Animi,pl. , of Animus
Anion,n., An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to cation. 
Anise,n., An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum
Anker,n., A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old wine gallons, or 8/ imperial gallons. 
Ankle,n., The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
Annat,n., A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease. 
Annal,n., See Annals.
Annex,v. t., To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; -- followed by to.
Annoy,n., To disturb or irritate, especially by continued or repeated acts; to tease; to ruffle in mind; to vex; as, I was annoyed by his remarks. 
Annul,a., To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.
Anode,n., The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to the other pole; -- opposed to cathode. 
Anoil,v. t., To anoint with oil.
Anomy,n., Disregard or violation of law.
Anona,n., A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order Anonaceae, including the soursop. 
Anorn,v. t., To adorn.
Ansae,pl. , of Ansa
Antae,pl. , of Anta
Antes,n. pl., Antae. See Anta.
Antic,a., Old; antique.
Antre,n., A cavern.
Antra,pl. , of Antrum
Anura,n. pl., One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads. 
Anury,n., Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.
Anvil,n., An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are hammered and shaped. 
Aorta,n., The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial system.
Apace,adv., With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.
Apaid,a., Paid; pleased.
Apair,v. t. & i., To impair or become impaired; to injure.
Apara,n., See Mataco.
Apart,adv., Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of separation as to place; aside. 
Aping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ape
Apeak,adv. & a., In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is them said to be hove apeak. 
Apert,a., Open; evident; undisguised.
Apery,n., A place where apes are kept.
Aphid,n., One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.
Aphis,n., A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidae, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies. 
Apian,a., Belonging to bees.
Apiol,n., An oily liquid derived from parsley.
Apish,a., Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected; trifling.
Apods,pl. , of Apode
Apode,n., One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs; esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.
Apoda,n., A group of cirripeds, destitute of footlike organs. 
Aport,adv., On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.
Appay,v. t., To pay; to satisfy or appease.
Apple,n., The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus
Apply,v. t., To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another
Appui,n., A support or supporter; a stay; a prop.
April,n., The fourth month of the year.
Apron,n., An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them from injury, or as a covering. It is commonly tied at the waist by strings. 
Apsis,n., One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body, corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the line of apsides. 
Aptly,adv., In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently; appropriately; readily.
Araby,n., The country of Arabia.
Arace,v. t., To tear up by the roots; to draw away.
Arara,n., The palm (or great black
Arbor,n., A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines, branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. 
Archy,a., Arched; as, archy brows. 
archy,, A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the rule of one only. Cf. -arch. 
Ardor,n., Heat, in a literal sense; as, the ardor of the sun's rays. 
Areas,pl. , of Area
Aread,v. t., Alt. of Areed
Areed,v. t., To tell, declare, explain, or interpret; to divine; to guess; as, to aread a riddle or a dream. 
Areal,a., Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves
Arear,v. t. & i., To raise; to set up; to stir up.
Areca,n., A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut, or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper Betle and lime. 
Areek,adv. & a., In a reeking condition.
Arefy,v. t., To dry, or make dry. 
Arena,n., The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called because it was covered with sand. 
Areng,n., Alt. of Arenga
Arere,v. t. & i., See Arear.
Arest,n., A support for the spear when couched for the attack.
Argal,n., Crude tartar. See Argol.
Argas,n., A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje. 
Argil,n., Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See Clay. 
Argol,n., Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from wines on the sides of the casks. 
Argon,n., A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere and remarkable for its chemical inertness. 
Argot,n., A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves, tramps, and vagabonds; flash. 
Argue,v. i., To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition, opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason. 
Argus,n., A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes, who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the peacock's tail. 
Arian,a. & n., See Aryan.
Ariel,, Alt. of Ariel gazelle
Aries,n., The Ram; the first of the twelve signs in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the vernal equinox, about the 21st of March. 
Arose,imp., of Arise
Arise,v. i., To come up from a lower to a higher position; to come above the horizon; to come up from one's bed or place of repose; to mount; to ascend; to rise; as, to arise from a kneeling posture; a cloud arose; the sun ariseth; he arose early in the morning. 
Arist,, 3d sing. pres. of Arise, for ariseth. 
Arles,n. pl., An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.
Armed,imp. & p. p., of Arm
Armet,n., A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries. 
Armil,n., A bracelet.
Armor,n., Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to protect one's person in battle.
Arnee,n., The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni
Arnot,n., Alt. of Arnut
Arnut,n., The earthnut.
Aroid,a., Alt. of Aroideous
Aroma,n., The quality or principle of plants or other substances which constitutes their fragrance; agreeable odor; as, the aroma of coffee. 
Aroph,n., A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various medical remedies.
Arose,, The past or preterit tense of Arise.
Arpen,n., Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different parts of the country. The arpent of Paris was 4,088 sq. yards, or nearly five sixths of an English acre. The woodland arpent was about 1 acre, 1 rood, 1 perch, English. 
Arras,n., Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures. 
Array,n., Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular lines; hence, order of battle; as, drawn up in battle array. 
Arret,n., A judgment, decision, or decree of a court or high tribunal; also, a decree of a sovereign. 
Arris,n., The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column. 
Arrow,n., A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. 
Arsis,n., That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis
Arson,n., The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship. 
Artly,adv., With art or skill.
Artow,, A contraction of art thou.
Arval,n., A funeral feast.
Aryan,n., One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the Hindoo Koosh and Paropamisan Mountains, and to have been the stock from which sprang the Hindoo, Persian, Greek, Latin, Celtic, Teutonic, Slavonic, and other races; one of that ethnological division of mankind called also Indo-European or Indo-Germanic. 
Asses,pl. , of As
Ascii,n. pl., Alt. of Ascians
Ascus,n., A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi.
Ashen,a., Of or pertaining to the ash tree.
Ashes,n. pl., The earthy or mineral particles of combustible substances remaining after combustion, as of wood or coal. 
Asian,a., Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic.
Aside,adv., On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction; at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart. 
Asked,imp. & p. p., of Ask
Asker,n., One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer.
Askew,adv. & a., Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. 
Aslug,adv., Sluggishly.
Asoak,a., Soaking.
Aspen,n., Alt. of Asp
Asper,a., Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce.
Aspic,n., The venomous asp.
Assai,, A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow. 
Assay,n., Trial; attempt; essay.
Asset,n., Any article or separable part of one's assets.
Assot,v. t., To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate.
Astay,adv., An anchor is said to be astay, when, in heaving it, an acute angle is formed between the cable and the surface of the water. 
Astel,n., An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in a mine. 
Aster,n., A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers; starwort; Michaelmas daisy.
Astir,adv. & a., Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.
Aston,v. t., Alt. of Astone
Astun,v. t., To stun.
Asura,n., An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants. 
Asyla,pl. , of Asylum
Atake,v. t., To overtake.
Ataxy,n., Disorder; irregularity.
Atilt,adv., In the manner of a tilter; in the position, or with the action, of one making a thrust. 
Atimy,n., Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.
Atlas,n., One who sustains a great burden.
Atoll,n., A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef, partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a lagoon island. 
Atomy,n., An atom; a mite; a pigmy.
Atone,v. i., To agree; to be in accordance; to accord.
Atony,n., Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ, especially of such as are contractile. 
Atrip,adv., Just hove clear of the ground; -- said of the anchor.
Atria,pl. , of Atrium
Attal,n., Same as Attle.
Attar,n., A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses. 
Atter,n., Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore.
Attic,a., Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of the Athenians; classical; refined. 
Attle,n., Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little or no ore.
Attry,a., Poisonous; malignant; malicious.
Aubin,n., A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; -- commonly called a Canterbury gallop. 
Audit,a., An audience; a hearing.
Auger,n., A carpenter's tool for boring holes larger than those bored by a gimlet. It has a handle placed crosswise by which it is turned with both hands. A pod auger is one with a straight channel or groove, like the half of a bean pod. A screw auger has a twisted blade, by the spiral groove of which the chips are discharge. 
Auget,n., A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery, or place where the slow match is applied. 
Aught,n., Alt. of Aucht
Aucht,n., Property; possession.
Aught,n., Anything; any part.
Augur,n., An official diviner who foretold events by the singing, chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds, or unusual occurrences. 
Aulic,a., Pertaining to a royal court.
Aunty,n., A familiar name for an aunt. In the southern United States a familiar term applied to aged negro women.
Aurae,pl. , of Aura
Aural,a., Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura. 
Auric,a., Of or pertaining to gold.
Aurin,n., A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in commerce, yellow corallin. 
Aurum,n., Gold.
Avail,v. t., To turn to the advantage of; to be of service to; to profit; to benefit; to help; as, artifices will not avail the sinner in the day of judgment. 
Avale,v. t. & i., To cause to descend; to lower; to let fall; to doff.
Avant,n., The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.
Avast,a., Cease; stop; stay.
Avena,n., A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa
Avens,n., A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet. 
Avert,n., To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can the danger be averted?   To avert his ire.   
Avian,a., Of or instrument to birds.
Avile,v. t., To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate.
Avise,v. t., To look at; to view; to think of.
Aviso,n., Information; advice.
Avoid,a., To empty.
Avoke,v. t., To call from or back again.
Await,v. t., To watch for; to look out for.
Awoke,imp., of Awake
Awake,v. t., To rouse from sleep; to wake; to awaken.
Award,v. t., To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant. 
Aware,a., Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.
Awarn,v. t., To warn.
Awash,a., Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.
Awing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Awe
Awful,a., Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful scene. 
Awing,adv., On the wing; flying; fluttering.
Awkly,adv., In an unlucky (left-handed
Awned,a., Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded. 
Awork,adv., At work; in action.
Axial,a., Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an axis; around an axis. 
Axile,a., Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed.
Axiom,a., A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as,   The whole is greater than a part;     A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be.   
Axled,a., Having an axle; -- used in composition.
Axmen,pl. , of Axman
Axman,n., One who wields an ax.
Ayein,adv. & prep., Alt. of Ayeins
Ayond,prep. & adv., Beyond.
Ayont,prep. & adv., Beyond.
Ayrie,n., Alt. of Ayry
Azoic,a., Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. 
Azote,n., Same as Nitrogen.
Azoth,n., The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them. 
Aztec,a., Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519.
Azure,a., Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless. 
Azurn,a., Azure.
Azyme,n., Unleavened bread.
Babel,n., The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of languages took place. 
Baboo,n., Alt. of Babu
Backs,n. pl., Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides. 
Bacon,n., The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh. 
Badge,n., A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman. 
Badly,adv., In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.
Bafta,n., A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India. Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export. 
Baggy,a., Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks. 
Bague,n., The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts.
Bahar,n., A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds. 
Bairn,n., A child.
Baize,n., A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.
Baked,imp. & p. p., of Bake
Baken,, p. p. of Bake.
Baker,v. i., One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc. 
Balas,, A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining to orange. See Spinel. 
Baled,imp. & p. p., of Bale
Balky,a., Apt to balk; as, a balky horse. 
Balmy,a., Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging; soothing; refreshing; mild.
Balsa,n., A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America. 
Banal,a., Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.
Banat,n., The territory governed by a ban.
Banco,n., A bank, especially that of Venice. 
Bandy,n., A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks. 
Banns,n. pl., Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place. 
Barde,n., A piece of defensive (or, sometimes, ornamental
Bared,imp. & p. p., of Bare
Barge,n., A pleasure boat; a vessel or boat of state, elegantly furnished and decorated. 
Baria,n., Baryta.
Baric,a., Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide. 
Barky,a., Covered with, or containing, bark. 
Balmy,a., Full of barm or froth; in a ferment.
Baron,n., A title or degree of nobility; originally, the possessor of a fief, who had feudal tenants under him; in modern times, in France and Germany, a nobleman next in rank below a count; in England, a nobleman of the lowest grade in the House of Lords, being next below a viscount. 
Barry,a., Divided into bars; -- said of the field.
Barse,n., The common perch. See 1st Bass.
Barth,n., A place of shelter for cattle.
Basal,a., Relating to, or forming, the base. 
Basan,n., Same as Basil, a sheepskin. 
Based,imp. & p. p., of Base
Basic,a., Relating to a base; performing the office of a base in a salt.
Basil,n., The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a plane, is ground. 
Basin,n., A hollow vessel or dish, to hold water for washing, and for various other uses. 
Bases,pl. , of Basis
Basis,n., The foundation of anything; that on which a thing rests.
Bason,n., A basin.
Bassa,n., Alt. of Bassaw
Basso,a., The bass or lowest part; as, to sing basso. 
Basta,interj., Enough; stop.
Baste,v. t., To beat with a stick; to cudgel.
Basto,n., The ace of clubs in quadrille and omber.
Batch,v. t., The quantity of bread baked at one time.
Bated,imp. & p. p., of Bate
Baths,pl. , of Bath
Bathe,v. t., To wash by immersion, as in a bath; to subject to a bath. 
Baton,n., A staff or truncheon, used for various purposes; as, the baton of a field marshal; the baton of a conductor in musical performances. 
Batta,n., Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer serving in India.
Batty,a., Belonging to, or resembling, a bat. 
Baulk,n. & v., See Balk.
Bavin,n., A fagot of brushwood, or other light combustible matter, for kindling fires; refuse of brushwood. 
Bawdy,a., Dirty; foul; -- said of clothes.
Bayed,imp. & p. p., of Bay
Bayad,n., Alt. of Bayatte
Bayed,a., Having a bay or bays.
Bayou,n., An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement except from tide and wind. 
Bayze,n., See Baize.
Bazar,n., In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops where goods are exposed for sale. 
Being,p. pr. & vb. n., of Be
Beach,n., Pebbles, collectively; shingle. 
Beady,a., Resembling beads; small, round, and glistening. 
Beamy,a., Emitting beams of light; radiant; shining.
Borne,, of Bear
Beard,n., The hair that grows on the chin, lips, and adjacent parts of the human face, chiefly of male adults. 
Bearn,n., See Bairn.
Beast,n., Any living creature; an animal; -- including man, insects, etc. 
Beath,v. t., To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood. 
Beaux,pl. , of Beau
Beaus,pl. , of Beau
Beaux,n., pl. of Beau.
Beche,, The trepang.
Bedel,n., Alt. of Bedell
Beden,n., The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana
Bedew,v. t., To moisten with dew, or as with dew. 
Bedim,v. t., To make dim; to obscure or darken.
Bedye,v. t., To dye or stain.
Beech,n., A tree of the genus Fagus.
Beefy,a., Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef; fleshy.
Beeld,n., Same as Beild.
Beery,a., Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.
Beete,v. t., Alt. of Bete
Beeve,n., A beef; a beef creature.
Befit,v. t., To be suitable to; to suit; to become.
Befog,v. t., To involve in a fog; -- mostly as a participle or part. adj.
Begem,v. t., To adorn with gems, or as with gems. 
Begot,imp., of Beget
Begat,, of Beget
Begot,p. p., of Beget
Beget,v. t., To procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said of the father. 
Began,imp. & p. p., of Begin
Begun,, of Begin
Begin,v. i., To have or commence an independent or first existence; to take rise; to commence.
Begod,v. t., To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify.
Begot,, imp. & p. p. of Beget.
Begum,n., In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. 
Begun,, p. p. of Begin.
Behen,n., Alt. of Behn
Beige,n., Debeige.
Beild,n., A place of shelter; protection; refuge.
Being,p. pr., Existing.
Bekah,n., Half a shekel.
Belam,v. t., To beat or bang.
Belay,v. t., To lay on or cover; to adorn.
Belch,v. i., To eject or throw up from the stomach with violence; to eruct.
Belee,v. t., To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind. 
Beaux,pl. , of Bel-esprit
Belie,n., To show to be false; to convict of, or charge with, falsehood. 
Belle,n., A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady. 
Belly,n., That part of the human body which extends downward from the breast to the thighs, and contains the bowels, or intestines; the abdomen. 
Below,prep., Under, or lower in place; beneath not so high; as, below the moon; below the knee. 
Bemad,v. t., To make mad.
Bemet,imp. & p. p., of Bemeet
Bemol,n., The sign /; the same as B flat.
Bench,n., A long seat, differing from a stool in its greater length. 
Bendy,a., Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or its charge.
Benet,v. t., To catch in a net; to insnare.
Benim,v. t., To take away.
Benne,n., The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum
Benty,a., A bounding in bents, or the stalks of coarse, stiff, withered grass; as, benty fields. 
Beray,v. t., To make foul; to soil; to defile.
Berbe,n., An African genet (Genetta pardina
Bergh,n., A hill.
Berme,n., A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch.
Berna,, A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which lays its eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where the larvae do great injury. 
Berob,v. t., To rob; to plunder.
Beroe,n., A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the Ctenophora. 
Berry,n., Any small fleshy fruit, as the strawberry, mulberry, huckleberry, etc. 
Berth,n., Convenient sea room.
Beryl,n., A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much beauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluish green color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate of aluminium and glucinum (beryllium
Besee,v. t. & i., To see; to look; to mind.
Beset,imp. & p. p., of Beset
Besit,v. t., To suit; to fit; to become.
Besom,n., A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps away or destroys.
Besot,v. t., To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to infatuate.
Betel,n., A species of pepper (Piper betle
Betid,Obs, of Betide
Beton,n., The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the French fashion. 
Betso,n., A small brass Venetian coin.
Betty,n., A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open.
Bevel,n., Any angle other than a right angle; the angle which one surface makes with another when they are not at right angles; the slant or inclination of such surface; as, to give a bevel to the edge of a table or a stone slab; the bevel of a piece of timber. 
Bever,n., A light repast between meals; a lunch.
Bewet,imp. & p. p., of Bewet
Bewig,v. t., To cover (the head
Bewit,n., A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a hawk's legs.
Bezel,n., The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object, as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set. 
Bhang,n., An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica
Bibbe,v. t., To drink; to tipple.
Bibbs,n. pl., Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast to support the trestletrees.
Bible,n., A book.
Bicho,n., See Jigger.
Biddy,n., A name used in calling a hen or chicken.
Bided,imp. & p. p., of Bide
Bidet,n., A small horse formerly allowed to each trooper or dragoon for carrying his baggage.
Bield,n., A shelter. Same as Beild.
Bifid,a., Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins. 
Bigam,n., A bigamist.
Bigha,n., A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre. 
Bight,v., A corner, bend, or angle; a hollow; as, the bight of a horse's knee; the bight of an elbow. 
Bigly,a., In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently. 
Bigot,n., A hypocrite; esp., a superstitious hypocrite. 
Bijou,n., A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of elegant workmanship.
Bilbo,n., A rapier; a sword; so named from Bilbao, in Spain. 
Bilge,n., The protuberant part of a cask, which is usually in the middle. 
Bilgy,a., Having the smell of bilge water.
Bilin,n., A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids.
Billy,n., A club; esp., a policeman's club. 
Binal,a., Twofold; double.
Bound,imp., of Bind
Binny,n., A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni
Biped,n., A two-footed animal, as man. 
Birch,n., A tree of several species, constituting the genus Betula; as, the white or common birch (B. alba
Birse,n., A bristle or bristles.
Birth,n., The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; -- generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son. 
Bisie,v. t., To busy; to employ.
Bison,n., The aurochs or European bison.
Bitch,n., The female of the canine kind, as of the dog, wolf, and fox. 
Biter,n., One who, or that which, bites; that which bites often, or is inclined to bite, as a dog or fish. 
Bitts,n. pl., A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belaying bitts
Bizet,n., The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle and the table. See Brilliant, n. 
Black,a., Destitute of light, or incapable of reflecting it; of the color of soot or coal; of the darkest or a very dark color, the opposite of white; characterized by such a color; as, black cloth; black hair or eyes. 
Blade,n., Properly, the leaf, or flat part of the leaf, of any plant, especially of gramineous plants. The term is sometimes applied to the spire of grasses. 
Blady,a., Consisting of blades.
Blain,n., An inflammatory swelling or sore; a bulla, pustule, or blister. 
Blame,v. t., To censure; to express disapprobation of; to find fault with; to reproach.
Bland,a., Mild; soft; gentle; smooth and soothing in manner; suave; as, a bland temper; bland persuasion; a bland sycophant. 
Blank,a., Of a white or pale color; without color.
Blare,v. i., To sound loudly and somewhat harshly.
Blase,a., Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.
Blast,n., A violent gust of wind.
Blaze,n., A stream of gas or vapor emitting light and heat in the process of combustion; a bright flame.
Bleak,a., Without color; pale; pallid.
Blear,v., Dim or sore with water or rheum; -- said of the eyes.
Bleat,v. i., To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like a sheep or calf. 
Bleck,v. t., Alt. of Blek
Bleed,v. i., To emit blood; to lose blood; to run with blood, by whatever means; as, the arm bleeds; the wound bled freely; to bleed at the nose. 
Blent,, of Blend
Blend,v. t., To mix or mingle together; esp. to mingle, combine, or associate so that the separate things mixed, or the line of demarcation, can not be distinguished. Hence: To confuse; to confound. 
Blenk,v. i., To blink; to shine; to look.
Blent,imp. & p. p., Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained. 
Blest,, of Bless
Bless,v. t., To make or pronounce holy; to consecrate
Blest,a., Blessed.
Blind,a., Destitute of the sense of seeing, either by natural defect or by deprivation; without sight. 
Blink,v. i., To wink; to twinkle with, or as with, the eye. 
Blirt,n., A gust of wind and rain.
Bliss,n., Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy. 
Blite,n., A genus of herbs (Blitum
Blive,adv., Quickly; forthwith.
Bloat,v. t., To make turgid, as with water or air; to cause a swelling of the surface of, from effusion of serum in the cellular tissue, producing a morbid enlargement, often accompanied with softness. 
Block,v. t., A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone, etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces; as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to mount a horse; children's playing blocks, etc. 
Blond,v. t., Alt. of Blonde
Blood,n., The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing away waste products to be excreted. See under Arterial. 
Bloom,n., A blossom; the flower of a plant; an expanded bud; flowers, collectively. 
Blore,n., The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast.
Blote,v. t., To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat. 
Blown,p. p., of Blow
Blowy,a., Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland. 
Blued,imp. & p. p., of Blue
Bluey,a., Bluish.
Bluff,a., Having a broad, flattened front; as, the bluff bows of a ship. 
Blunt,a., Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument; dull; not sharp. 
Blurt,v. t., To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately; to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.
Blush,v. i., To become suffused with red in the cheeks, as from a sense of shame, modesty, or confusion; to become red from such cause, as the cheeks or face. 
Board,n., A piece of timber sawed thin, and of considerable length and breadth as compared with the thickness, -- used for building, etc. 
Boast,v. i., To vaunt one's self; to brag; to say or tell things which are intended to give others a high opinion of one's self or of things belonging to one's self; as, to boast of one's exploits courage, descent, wealth. 
Bobac,n., The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac
Bobby,n., A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, who remodeled the police force. See Peeler. 
Bocal,n., A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck. 
Bocca,n., The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory through which the fused glass is taken out.
Boded,imp. & p. p., of Bode
Bodge,n., A botch; a patch.
Bodle,n., A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny.
Bogey,n., A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy.
Boggy,a., Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of a bog; swampy; as, boggy land. 
Bogie,n., A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around a vertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railway track. 
Bogle,n., A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear.
Bogue,v. i., To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft.
Bogus,a., Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit. 
Bohea,n., Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea. 
Bohun,, See Upas.
Boiar,n., See Boyar.
Boist,n., A box.
Bolar,a., Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature and qualities of bole; clayey.
Bolas,n. sing. & pl., A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more balls of stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leather cord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, for hurling at and entangling an animal. 
Boldo,n., Alt. of Boldu
Boldu,n., A fragrant evergreen shrub of Chili (Peumus Boldus
Boley,n., Alt. of Bolye
Bolye,n., Same as Booly.
Bolis,n., A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train of light or sparks; esp. one which explodes. 
Bolty,n., An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis
Bolus,n., A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill. 
Bonce,n., A boy's game played with large marbles.
Boned,imp. & p. p., of Bone
Bonne,n., A female servant charged with the care of a young child.
Bonny,a., Handsome; beautiful; pretty; attractively lively and graceful.
Bonus,n., A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter. 
Bonze,n., A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun. 
Booby,n., A dunce; a stupid fellow.
Boodh,n., Same as Buddha.
Booky,a., Bookish.
Booly,n., A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed for the shelter of cattle or their keepers. 
Boort,n., See Bort.
Boose,n., A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal. 
Boost,v. i., To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb
Booth,n., A house or shed built of boards, boughs, or other slight materials, for temporary occupation. 
Boots,n., A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks the boots and shoes. 
Booty,n., That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery, especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage. 
Booze,v. i., To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; to tipple. 
Boozy,a., A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.
Borax,n., A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste, used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors on porcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineral springs, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany. It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent to Europe under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborate of sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O. 
Bored,imp. & p. p., of Bore
Boree,n., Same as BourrEe.
Borel,n., See Borrel.
Borer,n., One that bores; an instrument for boring.
Boric,a., Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron. 
Borne,p. p., Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t. 
Boron,n., A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It is reduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained in several different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color, in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similar to the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in nature also in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals. Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B. 
Borwe,n., Pledge; borrow.
Bosky,a., Woody or bushy; covered with boscage or thickets.
Bosom,n., The breast of a human being; the part, between the arms, to which anything is pressed when embraced by them. 
Boson,n., See Boatswain.
Bossy,a., Ornamented with bosses; studded.
Botch,n., A swelling on the skin; a large ulcerous affection; a boil; an eruptive disease.
Bothy,n., Alt. of Boothy
Botts,n. pl., See Bots.
Bouch,n., A mouth.
Bouge,v. i., To swell out.
Bough,n., An arm or branch of a tree, esp. a large arm or main branch. 
Boule,n., Alt. of Boulework
Buolt,n., Corrupted form Bolt.
Bound,n., The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of any object or space; that which limits or restrains, or within which something is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary. 
Bourd,n., A jest.
Bouri,n., A mullet (Mugil capito
Bourn,v., Alt. of Bourne
Bouse,v. i., To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze.
Bousy,a., Drunken; sotted; boozy.
Bovey,, A kind of mineral coal, or brown lignite, burning with a weak flame, and generally a disagreeable odor; -- found at Bovey Tracey, Devonshire, England. It is of geological age of the oolite, and not of the true coal era. 
Bovid,a., Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genus Bos is the type.
Bowed,imp. & p. p., of Bow
Bowel,n., One of the intestines of an animal; an entrail, especially of man; a gut; -- generally used in the plural. 
Bower,v. & n., One who bows or bends.
Bowge,v. i., To swell out. See Bouge.
Bowie,, A knife with a strong blade from ten to fifteen inches long, and double-edged near the point; -- used as a hunting knife, and formerly as a weapon in the southwestern part of the United States. It was named from its inventor, Colonel James Bowie. Also, by extension, any large sheath knife. 
Bowls,n. pl., See Bowl, a ball, a game. 
Bowne,v. t., To make ready; to prepare; to dress.
Bowse,v. i., To carouse; to bouse; to booze.
Boxes,pl. , of Box
Boxed,imp. & p. p., of Box
Boxen,a., Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus
Boxer,n., One who packs boxes.
Boyar,n., Alt. of Boyard
Boyau,n., A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc. 
Boyer,n., A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end.
Brace,n., That which holds anything tightly or supports it firmly; a bandage or a prop.
Brach,n., A bitch of the hound kind.
Brack,n., An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack or breach; a flaw.
Bract,n., A leaf, usually smaller than the true leaves of a plant, from the axil of which a flower stalk arises. 
Braid,v. t., To weave, interlace, or entwine together, as three or more strands or threads; to form into a braid; to plait. 
Brail,n., A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.
Brain,n., The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition
Brait,n., A rough diamond.
Brake,, imp. of Break.
Braky,a., Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns; rough; thorny. 
Brama,n., See Brahma.
Brame,n., Sharp passion; vexation.
Brand,v. t., A burning piece of wood; or a stick or piece of wood partly burnt, whether burning or after the fire is extinct. 
Brank,n., Buckwheat.
Brant,n., A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla
Brash,a., Hasty in temper; impetuous.
Brass,n., An alloy (usually yellow
Brast,v. t. & i., To burst.
Brave,superl., Bold; courageous; daring; intrepid; -- opposed to cowardly; as, a brave man; a brave act. 
Bravo,a., A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a professional assassin or murderer.
Brawl,v. i., To quarrel noisily and outrageously.
Brawn,n., A muscle; flesh.
Braxy,n., A disease of sheep. The term is variously applied in different localities.
Braze,v. i., To solder with hard solder, esp. with an alloy of copper and zinc; as, to braze the seams of a copper pipe. 
Bread,a., To spread.
broke,imp., of Break
Brake,, of Break
Broke,, of Break
Break,v. t., To strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence; as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to break rocks or coal; to break a lock. 
Bream,n., A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food. Several species are known. 
Brede,n., Alt. of Breede
Breed,v. t., To produce as offspring; to bring forth; to bear; to procreate; to generate; to beget; to hatch.
Breme,a., Fierce; sharp; severe; cruel.
Brent,imp. & p. p., of Brenne
Brant,a., Steep; high.
Brent,imp. & p. p., Burnt.
Brere,n., A brier.
Brest,3d sing.pr., for Bursteth.
Brast,imp., of Breste
Brett,n., Same as Britzska.
Breve,n., A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or four minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It was formerly of a square figure (as thus: / 
Briar,n., Same as Brier.
Bribe,n., A gift begged; a present.
Brick,n., A block or clay tempered with water, sand, etc., molded into a regular form, usually rectangular, and sun-dried, or burnt in a kiln, or in a heap or stack called a clamp. 
Bride,n., A woman newly married, or about to be married. 
Brief,a., Short in duration.
Brier,n., Alt. of Briar
Briar,n., A plant with a slender woody stem bearing stout prickles; especially, species of Rosa, Rubus, and Smilax. 
Brike,n., A breach; ruin; downfall; peril.
Brill,n., A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis
Brine,n., Water saturated or strongly impregnated with salt; pickle; hence, any strong saline solution; also, the saline residue or strong mother liquor resulting from the evaporation of natural or artificial waters. 
Bring,v. t., To convey to the place where the speaker is or is to be; to bear from a more distant to a nearer place; to fetch.
Brink,n., The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of a precipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border; as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig. 
Briny,a., Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of the nature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood. 
Brisk,a., Full of liveliness and activity; characterized by quickness of motion or action; lively; spirited; quick.
Britt,n., The young of the common herring; also, a small species of herring; the sprat. 
Brite,v. t., Alt. of Bright
Brize,n., The breeze fly. See Breeze.
Broad,superl., Wide; extend in breadth, or from side to side; -- opposed to narrow; as, a broad street, a broad table; an inch broad. 
Brock,n., A badger.
Broid,v. t., To braid.
Broil,n., A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state. 
Broke,v. i., To transact business for another.
Broma,n., Aliment; food.
Brome,n., See Bromine.
Brond,n., A sword.
Brood,v. t., The young birds hatched at one time; a hatch; as, a brood of chickens. 
Brook,v. t., A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.
Broom,n., A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep with when bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe, which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches, minute leaves, and large yellow flowers. 
Brose,n., Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp. oatmeal
Broth,n., Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, as barley or rice
Brown,superl., Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow. 
Bruin,a., A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables.
Bruit,n., Report; rumor; fame.
Brume,n., Mist; fog; vapors.
Brunt,v. t., The heat, or utmost violence, of an onset; the strength or greatest fury of any contention; as, the brunt of a battle. 
Brush,n., An instrument composed of bristles, or other like material, set in a suitable back or handle, as of wood, bone, or ivory, and used for various purposes, as in removing dust from clothes, laying on colors, etc. Brushes have different shapes and names according to their use; as, clothes brush, paint brush, tooth brush, etc. 
Brusk,a., Same as Brusque.
Bruta,n., See Edentata.
Brute,a., Not having sensation; senseless; inanimate; unconscious; without intelligence or volition; as, the brute earth; the brute powers of nature. 
Bubby,n., A woman's breast.
Buchu,n., A South African shrub (Barosma
Budge,v. i., To move off; to stir; to walk away.
Budgy,n., Consisting of fur.
Buffa,n. fem., The comic actress in an opera.
Buffo,n.masc., The comic actor in an opera.
Buffy,a., Resembling, or characterized by, buff. 
Buggy,a., Infested or abounding with bugs.
Bugle,n., A sort of wild ox; a buffalo.
Built,imp. & p. p., of Build
Build,v. t., To erect or construct, as an edifice or fabric of any kind; to form by uniting materials into a regular structure; to fabricate; to make; to raise. 
Built,n., Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship. 
Bulau,n., An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii
Bulge,n., The bilge or protuberant part of a cask.
Bulgy,a., Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward. 
Bulky,a., Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick; massive; as, bulky volumes. 
Bulla,n., A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a transparent watery fluid. 
Bully,n., A noisy, blustering fellow, more insolent than courageous; one who is threatening and quarrelsome; an insolent, tyrannical fellow. 
Bulse,n., A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc. 
Bulti,n., Same as Bolty.
Bunch,n., A protuberance; a hunch; a knob or lump; a hump.
Bungo,n., A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind of boat used in the Southern United States. 
Bunko,n., A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a sham lottery. 
Bunny,n., A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or going out from it.
Burel,n. & a., Same as Borrel.
Burgh,n., A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland. See Borough. 
Burin,n., The cutting tool of an engraver on metal, used in line engraving. It is made of tempered steel, one end being ground off obliquely so as to produce a sharp point, and the other end inserted in a handle; a graver; also, the similarly shaped tool used by workers in marble. 
Burke,v. t., To murder by suffocation, or so as to produce few marks of violence, for the purpose of obtaining a body to be sold for dissection. 
Burly,a., Having a large, strong, or gross body; stout; lusty; -- now used chiefly of human beings, but formerly of animals, in the sense of stately or beautiful, and of inanimate things that were huge and bulky. 
Burnt,, of Burn
Burro,n., A donkey.
Burry,a., Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as, burry wool. 
Bursa,n., Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed between tendons and bony prominences. 
Burse,n., A purse; also, a vesicle; a pod; a hull. 
Burst,imp. & p. p., of Burst
Busby,n., A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is of fur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment, hanging from the top over the right shoulder. 
Bushy,a., Thick and spreading, like a bush. 
Busky,a., See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n. 
Busto,n., A bust; a statue.
Butte,n., A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar elevations in the Rocky Mountain region. 
Butty,n., One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore. 
Butyl,n., A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of hydrogen. 
Buxom,a., Yielding; pliable or compliant; ready to obey; obedient; tractable; docile; meek; humble.
Buyer,n., One who buys; a purchaser.
Byard,n., A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines. 
Byssi,pl. , of Byssus
Byway,n., A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one. 
Caaba,n., The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray. 
Cabal,n., Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala
Cabas,n., A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. 
Caber,n., A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength.
Cabin,n., A cottage or small house; a hut.
Cable,n., A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links. 
Cabob,n., A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.
Cacao,n., A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao
Cache,n., A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. 
Cacti,pl. , of Cactus
Caddy,n., A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in. 
Cader,n., See Cadre.
Cadet,n., The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the youngest son.
Cadew,n., Alt. of Cadeworm
Cadge,v. t. & i., To carry, as a burden. 
Cadgy,a., Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton. 
Cadie,n., Alt. of Caddie
Cadis,n., A kind of coarse serge.
Cadre,n., The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff.
Caeca,n. pl., See Caecum.
Caged,imp. & p. p., of Cage
Cagit,n., A kind of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands. 
Cagot,n., One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs
Caird,n., A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar.
Cairn,n., A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument. 
Caked,imp. & p. p., of Cake
Calid,a., Hot; burning; ardent.
Calif,n., Alt. of Califate
Calin,n., An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters. 
Calix,n., A cup. See Calyx.
Calla,n., A genus of plants, of the order Araceae. 
Calle,n., A kind of head covering; a caul.
Calmy,n., Tranquil; peaceful; calm.
Calve,v. i., To bring forth a calf.
Calyx,n., The covering of a flower. See Flower.
Camel,n., A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius
Cameo,n., A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like. 
Camis,n., A light, loose dress or robe. 
Camus,n., See Camis.
Could,imp., of Can
Canal,n., An artificial channel filled with water and designed for navigation, or for irrigating land, etc. 
Candy,v. t., To conserve or boil in sugar; as, to candy fruits; to candy ginger. 
Caned,imp. & p. p., of Cane
Canes,pl. , of Canis
Canis,n., A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidae, including the dogs and wolves. 
Canna,n., A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4. 
Canny,a., Alt. of Cannei
Canoe,n., A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated, by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape. It is propelled by a paddle or paddles, or sometimes by sail, and has no rudder. 
Canon,n., A law or rule.
Ca?on,n., A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks, worn by water courses. 
Canon,, That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.
Can't,, A colloquial contraction for can not.
Canto,n., One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.
Canty,a., Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry.
Capel,n., Alt. of Caple
Caple,n., A horse; a nag.
Capel,n., A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornblende
Caper,v. i., To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to skip; to spring; to prance; to dance.
Pacha,, The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet.
Caple,n., See Capel.
Capoc,n., A sort of cotton so short and fine that it can not be spun, used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc. 
Capon,n., A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to improve his flesh for the table. 
Capot,n., A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts for forty points.
Capra,n., A genus of ruminants, including the common goat. 
Caput,n., The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum. 
Carac,n., See Carack.
Carat,n., The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.
Cardo,n., The basal joint of the maxilla in insects.
Cared,imp. & p. p., of Care
Caret,n., A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate that something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which belongs in the place marked by the caret. 
Carex,n., A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous plants of the order Cypreaceae; the sedges.
Cargo,n., The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods, merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load; freight. 
Carib,n., A native of the Caribbee islands or the coasts of the Caribbean sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India islands. 
Carob,n., An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua
Carol,n., A round dance.
Carom,n., A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball. In England it is called cannon.
Carps,pl. , of Carp
Carpi,pl. , of Carpus
Carry,v. t., To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off.
Carse,n., Low, fertile land; a river valley. 
Carte,n., Bill of fare.
Carus,n., Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.
Carve,v. t., To cut.
Casal,a., Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending. 
Cased,imp. & p. p., of Case
Casse,, Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.
Caste,n., One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindoos are divided according to the laws of Brahmanism.
Casus,n., An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.
Catch,v. t., To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp (anything
Catel,n., Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or income. 
Cater,n., A provider; a purveyor; a caterer.
Cates,n., Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties. 
Catso,n., A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat.
Catty,n., An East Indian Weight of 1 1/3 pounds.
Cauda,, A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristic of the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit. 
Caulk,v. t. & n., See Calk.
Cauma,n., Great heat, as of the body in fever. 
Cause,v., That which produces or effects a result; that from which anything proceeds, and without which it would not exist. 
Caved,imp. & p. p., of Cave
Cavil,v. i., To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault without good reason.
Cavin,n., A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their aproach to a place. 
Cawed,imp. & p. p., of Caw
Cawky,a., Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.
Caxon,n., A kind of wig.
Cazic,n., A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.
Cease,v. i., To come to an end; to stop; to leave off or give over; to desist; as, the noise ceased. 
Cedar,n., The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable for its durability and fragrant odor.
Ceded,imp. & p. p., of Cede
Cedry,a., Of the nature of cedar.
Ceint,n., A girdle.
Cella,n., The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as distinguished from the open porticoes. 
Celli,pl. , of Cello
Cello,n., A contraction for Violoncello.
Cense,n., A census; -- also, a public rate or tax. 
Cento,n., A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from different authors disposed in a new order.
Cerci,pl. , of Cercus
Cered,imp. & p. p., of Cere
Ceres,n., The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and tillage. 
Cerin,n., A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork; sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in alcohol.
Ceryl,n., A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc. 
Cetic,a., Of or pertaining to a whale.
Cetin,n., A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of spermaceti. 
Cetyl,n., A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived from spermaceti. 
Chace,n., See 3d Chase, n., 3. 
Chafe,v. t., To excite heat in by friction; to rub in order to stimulate and make warm.
Chaff,n., The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed by threshing and winnowing, etc. 
Chain,n., A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of mechanical power, etc. 
Chair,n., A movable single seat with a back.
Chaja,n., The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, / Chauna, chavaria
Chalk,n., A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone. 
Champ,v. t., To bite with repeated action of the teeth so as to be heard.
Chank,n., The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum. Called also chank chell. 
Chant,v. t., To utter with a melodious voice; to sing.
Chaos,n., An empty, immeasurable space; a yawning chasm. 
Chape,n., The piece by which an object is attached to something, as the frog of a scabbard or the metal loop at the back of a buckle by which it is fastened to a strap. 
Chaps,n. pl., The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. 
Charr,n., One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus, allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis
Chare,v. t., To perform; to do; to finish.
Chara,n., A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and whorled branches. They flourish in wet places. 
Chard,n., The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet, etc., blanched for table use. 
Chare,n., A narrow street.
Chark,n., Charcoal; a cinder.
Charm,n., A melody; a song.
Charr,n., See 1st Char.
Chart,n., A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as, an historical chart. 
Chary,a., Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal. 
Chase,v. t., To pursue for the purpose of killing or taking, as an enemy, or game; to hunt. 
Chasm,n., A deep opening made by disruption, as a breach in the earth or a rock; a yawning abyss; a cleft; a fissure. 
Chast,v. t., to chasten.
Chati,n., A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis
Chaun,n., A gap.
Chaus,n., a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus
Chazy,, An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the American Lower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co., New York. See the Diagram under Geology. 
Cheap,n., A bargain; a purchase; cheapness.
Chear,n. & v., See Cheer.
Cheat,n., An act of deception or fraud; that which is the means of fraud or deception; a fraud; a trick; imposition; imposture.
Check,n., A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move. 
Cheek,n., The side of the face below the eye.
Cheep,v. i., To chirp, as a young bird. 
Cheer,n., The face; the countenance or its expression.
Chela,n., The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.
Chely,n., A claw. See Chela.
Cheng,n., A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth. 
Chert,n., An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull color. 
Chese,v. t., To choose
Chess,n., A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and eight pawns. 
Chest,n., A large box of wood, or other material, having, like a trunk, a lid, but no covering of skin, leather, or cloth. 
Cheve,v. i., To come to an issue; to turn out; to succeed; as, to cheve well in a enterprise. 
Chevy,v. t., See Chivy, v. t. 
Chian,a., Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Aegean Sea. 
Chica,n., A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin. 
Chich,n., The chick-pea.
Chick,v. i., To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate. 
Chide,p. pr. & vb. n., To rebuke; to reprove; to scold; to find fault with.
Chief,n., The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army; a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who directs the work of others; the principal actor or agent. 
niere,n., One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.
Child,n., A son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate offspring. Used also of animals and plants. 
Chili,n., A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum
Chill,n., A moderate but disagreeable degree of cold; a disagreeable sensation of coolness, accompanied with shivering. 
Chimb,n., The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. 
Chime,n., See Chine, n., 3. 
China,n., A country in Eastern Asia.
Chine,n., A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep. 
Chink,n., A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall. 
Chips,n., A ship's carpenter.
Chirk,v. i., To shriek; to gnash; to utter harsh or shrill cries.
Chirm,v. i., To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. 
Chirp,v. i., To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets. 
Chive,n., A filament of a stamen.
Chivy,v. t., To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. 
Choak,v. t. & i., See Choke.
Chock,v. t., To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to chock a wheel or cask. 
Chode,, the old imp. of chide. See Chide.
Choir,n., A band or organized company of singers, especially in church service. 
Choke,v. t., To render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle. 
Choky,a., Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate. 
Chomp,v. i., To chew loudly and greedily; to champ.
Chose,imp., of Choose
Chops,n. pl., The jaws; also, the fleshy parts about the mouth. 
Chord,n., The string of a musical instrument.
Chore,n., A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors. 
Chose,n., A thing; personal property.
Chout,n., An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue.
Chuck,v. i., To make a noise resembling that of a hen when she calls her chickens; to cluck.
Chuet,n., Minced meat.
Chufa,n., A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus
Chuff,n., A coarse or stupid fellow.
Chump,n., A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. 
Chunk,n., A short, thick piece of anything. 
Churl,n., A rustic; a countryman or laborer.
Chirm,n., Clamor, or confused noise; buzzing. 
Churn,v. t., A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher
Chuse,v. t., See Choose.
Chute,n., A framework, trough, or tube, upon or through which objects are made to slide from a higher to a lower level, or through which water passes to a wheel. 
Chyle,n., A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by the action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct. 
Chyme,n., The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines just after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in the intestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.
Cibol,n., A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum
Cider,n., The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, for making vinegar, and for other purposes. 
Cigar,n., A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking. 
Cilia,n. pl., The eyelashes.
Cimar,n., See Simar.
Cimex,n., A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best known example. See Bedbug.
Cimia,n., See Cimbia.
Cinch,n., A strong saddle girth, as of canvas. 
Cippi,pl. , of Cippus
Cirri,n. pl., See Cirrus.
Cisco,n., The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi
Cital,n., Summons to appear, as before a judge. 
Cited,imp. & p. p., of Cite
Citer,n., One who cites.
Civet,n., A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta
Civic,a., Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs. 
Civil,a., Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state. 
Cizar,v. i., To clip with scissors.
Clack,n., To make a sudden, sharp noise, or a succesion of such noises, as by striking an object, or by collision of parts; to rattle; to click. 
Claik,n., See Clake.
Claim,v./., To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due. 
Clake,n., Alt. of Claik
Claik,n., The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.
Clamp,n., Something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together. 
Clang,v. t., To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.
Clank,n., A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than clink. 
Clape,n., A bird; the flicker.
Claps,v. t., Variant of Clasp
Clare,n., A nun of the order of St. Clare.
Clart,v. t., To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. 
Clary,v. i., To make a loud or shrill noise.
Clash,v. i., To make a noise by striking against something; to dash noisily together.
Clasp,v. t., To shut or fasten together with, or as with, a clasp; to shut or fasten (a clasp, or that which fastens with a clasp
Class,n., A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated class; the lower classes. 
Clave,, imp. of Cleave.
Clavy,n., A mantelpiece.
Clean,superl., Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes. 
Clear,superl., Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous; unclouded.
Cleat,n., A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc. 
Clave,, of Cleave
Cleft,imp., of Cleave
Clave,, of Cleave
Clove,, of Cleave
Cleft,p. p., of Cleave
Clepe,v. t., To call, or name. 
Clerk,n., A clergyman or ecclesiastic.
Click,v. i., To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises
Cliff,n., A high, steep rock; a precipice. 
Clift,n., A cliff.
Clomb,, of Climb
Climb,v. i., To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet. 
Clime,n., A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.
Clung,imp. & p. p., of Cling
Clong,, of Cling
Cling,v. i., To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together. 
Clink,v. i., To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together. 
Cloak,n., A loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and commonly without sleeves. It is longer than a cape, and is worn both by men and by women. 
Clock,n., A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate. Its works are moved by a weight or a spring, and it is often so constructed as to tell the hour by the stroke of a hammer on a bell. It is not adapted, like the watch, to be carried on the person. 
Cloff,n., Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a general sense, of small deductions from the original weight. 
Cloke,n. & v., See Cloak.
Clomb,, Alt. of Clomben
Clomp,n., See Clamp.
Clong,, imp. of Cling.
Cloom,v. t., To close with glutinous matter.
Cloop,n., The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle.
Close,n., To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the eyes; to close a door. 
Closh,n., A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis.
Clote,n., The common burdock; the clotbur.
Cloth,n., A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in wire cloth
Cloud,n., A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, suspended in the upper atmosphere. 
Clout,n., A cloth; a piece of cloth or leather; a patch; a rag.
Clove,imp., Cleft.
Clown,n., A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an ill-bred person; a boor.
Cluck,v. i., To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. 
Clump,n., An unshaped piece or mass of wood or other substance.
Clung,, imp. & p. p. of Cling.
Cnida,n., One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a nematocyst; a lasso cell. 
Coach,n., A large, closed, four-wheeled carriage, having doors in the sides, and generally a front and back seat inside, each for two persons, and an elevated outside seat in front for the driver. 
Coact,v. t., To force; to compel; to drive.
Coaly,n., Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the nature of coal. 
Coast,v. t., The side of a thing.
Coati,n., A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose. 
Cobby,n., Headstrong; obstinate.
Cobia,n., An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada
Coble,n., A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England. 
Cobra,n., See Copra.
Cocci,pl. , of Coccus
Cocky,a., Pert.
Cocoa,, Alt. of Cocoa palm
Cocus,, A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musical instruments. 
Codex,n., A book; a manuscript.
Codle,v. t., See Coddle.
Cogue,n., A small wooden vessel; a pail.
Cokes,n., A simpleton; a gull; a dupe.
Colet,, Alt. of Collet
Colic,n., A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm, obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. 
Colin,n., The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to other related species. See Bobwhite.
Colla,pl. , of Collum
Colly,n., The black grime or soot of coal.
Colon,n., That part of the large intestines which extends from the caecum to the rectum. [See Illust of Digestion.]
Color,n., A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc. 
Colza,n., A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea
Combe,n., That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.
Comer,n., One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is present. 
Comes,n., The answer to the theme (dux
Comet,n., A member of the solar system which usually moves in an elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion, and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently wanting. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Comic,a., Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy. 
Comma,n., A character or point [,] marking the smallest divisions of a sentence, written or printed. 
Compt,n., Account; reckoning; computation.
Conch,n., A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are of the genus Cassis. See Cameo. 
Coney,n., A rabbit. See Cony.
Conge,n., The act of taking leave; parting ceremony; farewell; also, dismissal. 
Congo,n., Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty
Conia,n., Same as Conine.
Conic,a., Alt. of Conical
Conny,a., Brave; fine; canny.
Conus,n., A cone.
Cooed,imp. & p. p., of Coo
Cooey,n., Alt. of Cooee
Cooee,n., A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal.
Cooky,n., A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds. 
Cooly,n., Alt. of Coolie
Coomb,n., A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter. 
Coopt,v. t., To choose or elect in concert with another.
Copal,, A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum, T. verrucosum, and Hymenaea Courbaril
Coped,imp. & p. p., of Cope
Copps,n., See Copse.
Copra,n., The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed. 
Copse,n., A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.
Copsy,a., Characterized by copses.
Copts,n. pl., An Egyptian race thought to be descendants of the ancient Egyptians.
Coral,n., The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa. 
Corbe,a., Crooked.
Corby,n., The raven.
Corer,n., That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer. 
Corky,a., Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up. 
Corni,-n/, di basseto (pl. 
Corno,, A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimes confounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe. 
Corni,pl. , of Corno Inglese
Corno,, A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch; the English horn. 
Cornu,n., A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn. 
Corny,a., Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn. 
Corol,n., A corolla.
Corps,n. sing. & pl., The human body, whether living or dead. 
Corse,n., A living body or its bulk.
Corve,n., See Corf.
Cosen,v. t., See Cozen.
Cosey,a., See Cozy.
Costa,n., A rib of an animal or a human being.
Couch,v. t., To lay upon a bed or other resting place.
Cough,v. i., To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner. 
Could,imp., Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present. 
Count,v. t., To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon. 
Coupe,n., The front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front compartment (usually for three persons
Courb,a., Curved; rounded.
Court,n., An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley. 
Couth,imp. & p. p., Could; was able; knew or known; understood.
Coved,imp. & p. p., of Cove
Cover,v. t., To overspread the surface of (one thing
Covet,v. t., To wish for with eagerness; to desire possession of; -- used in a good sense.
Covey,n., A brood or hatch of birds; an old bird with her brood of young; hence, a small flock or number of birds together; -- said of game; as, a covey of partridges. 
Covin,n., A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice a third.
Cowed,imp. & p. p., of Cow
Cowan,n., One who works as a mason without having served a regular apprenticeship.
Cower,v. i., To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear. 
Cowry,n., A marine shell of the genus Cypraea.
Cow's,, Mullein.
Coyed,imp. & p. p., of Coy
Coyly,adv., In a coy manner; with reserve.
Coypu,n., A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus
Cozen,v. t., To cheat; to defraud; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way. 
Crack,v. t., To break or burst, with or without entire separation of the parts; as, to crack glass; to crack nuts. 
Craft,n., Strength; might; secret power.
Craie,n., See Crare.
Craig,, The pole flounder.
Crail,n., A creel or osier basket.
Crake,v. t. & i., To cry out harshly and loudly, like the bird called crake. 
Cramp,n., That which confines or contracts; a restraint; a shackle; a hindrance.
Crane,n., A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel. 
Crang,n., See Krang.
Crank,n., A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank. 
Crape,n., A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on the mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also for the dress of some clergymen. 
Craps,n., A gambling game with dice.
Crapy,a., Resembling crape.
Crare,n., A slow unwieldy trading vessel.
Crase,v. t., To break in pieces; to crack.
Crash,v. t. , To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence.
Crass,a., Gross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined.
Crate,n., A large basket or hamper of wickerwork, used for the transportation of china, crockery, and similar wares. 
Crave,v. t., To ask with earnestness or importunity; to ask with submission or humility; to beg; to entreat; to beseech; to implore.
Crawl,v. i., To move slowly by drawing the body along the ground, as a worm; to move slowly on hands and knees; to creep. 
Craze,v. t., To break into pieces; to crush; to grind to powder. See Crase.
Crazy,a., Characterized by weakness or feebleness; decrepit; broken; falling to decay; shaky; unsafe.
Creak,v. i., To make a prolonged sharp grating or squeaking sound, as by the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak. 
Cream,n., The rich, oily, and yellowish part of milk, which, when the milk stands unagitated, rises, and collects on the surface. It is the part of milk from which butter is obtained. 
Creat,n., An usher to a riding master.
Credo,n., The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church. 
Creed,v. t., A definite summary of what is believed; esp., a summary of the articles of Christian faith; a confession of faith for public use; esp., one which is brief and comprehensive. 
Creek,n., A small inlet or bay, narrower and extending further into the land than a cove; a recess in the shore of the sea, or of a river. 
Creel,n., An osier basket, such as anglers use. 
Crept,imp., of Creep
Crope,, of Creep
Crept,p. p., of Creep
Creep,v. t., To move along the ground, or on any other surface, on the belly, as a worm or reptile; to move as a child on the hands and knees; to crawl. 
Crees,n. pl., An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's Bay. 
Crems,n., See Krems.
Crepe,n., Same as Crape.
Crept,, imp. & p. p. of Creep.
Cress,n., A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaves have a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad and antiscorbutic. 
Crest,n., A tuft, or other excrescence or natural ornament, growing on an animal's head; the comb of a cock; the swelling on the head of a serpent; the lengthened feathers of the crown or nape of bird, etc. 
Crete,n., A Cretan
Creux,n., Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus, engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking or hollowing out the design. 
Crick,n., The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it. 
Cried,, imp. & p. p. of Cry.
Crier,n., One who cries; one who makes proclamation.
Crime,n., Any violation of law, either divine or human; an omission of a duty commanded, or the commission of an act forbidden by law. 
Crimp,v. t., To fold or plait in regular undulation in such a way that the material will retain the shape intended; to give a wavy appearance to; as, to crimp the border of a cap; to crimp a ruffle. Cf. Crisp. 
Crisp,a., Curling in stiff curls or ringlets; as, crisp hair. 
Crith,n., The unit for estimating the weight of a/riform substances; -- the weight of a liter of hydrogen at 0/ centigrade, and with a tension of 76 centimeters of mercury. It is 0.0896 of a gram, or 1.38274 grains. 
Croak,v. i., To make a low, hoarse noise in the throat, as a frog, a raven, or a crow; hence, to make any hoarse, dismal sound. 
Croat,n., A native of Croatia, in Austria; esp., one of the native Slavic race. 
Crock,n., The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which rubs off from cloth. 
Croft,n., A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm. 
Crois,n., See Cross, n. 
Croma,n., A quaver.
Crone,n., An old ewe.
Crony,n., A crone.
Crook,n., A bend, turn, or curve; curvature; flexure. 
Croon,v. i., To make a continuous hollow moan, as cattle do when in pain. 
Crore,n., Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly $5,000,000
Cross,n., A gibbet, consisting of two pieces of timber placed transversely upon one another, in various forms, as a T, or +, with the horizontal piece below the upper end of the upright, or as an X. It was anciently used in the execution of criminals. 
Croud,n., See Crowd, a violin. 
Croup,n., The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle. 
Crout,n., See Sourkrout.
Crown,, of Crow
Crowd,v. t., To push, to press, to shove. 
Crown,, p. p. of Crow.
Crows,n. pl., A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas. 
Croys,n., See Cross, n. 
Croze,n., A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks, etc.; also, the groove itself. 
Crude,superl., In its natural state; not cooked or prepared by fire or heat; undressed; not altered, refined, or prepared for use by any artificial process; raw; as, crude flesh. 
Crudy,a., Coagulated.
Cruel,n., See Crewel.
Cruet,n., A bottle or vessel; esp., a vial or small glass bottle for holding vinegar, oil, pepper, or the like, for the table; a caster. 
Crull,a., Curly; curled.
Crumb,n., A small fragment or piece; especially, a small piece of bread or other food, broken or cut off. 
Crump,a., Crooked; bent.
Crunk,v. i., Alt. of Crunkle
Cruor,n., The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore. 
Crura,n. pl., See Crus.
Cruse,n., A cup or dish.
Crush,v. t., To press or bruise between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass; as, to crush grapes. 
Crust,n., The hard external coat or covering of anything; the hard exterior surface or outer shell; an incrustation; as, a crust of snow. 
Cruth,n., See 4th Crowd.
Crwth,n., See 4th Crowd.
Cried,imp. & p. p., of Cry
Cries,pl. , of Cry
Cryal,n., The heron
Cryer,n., The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.
Crypt,n., A vault wholly or partly under ground; especially, a vault under a church, whether used for burial purposes or for a subterranean chapel or oratory. 
Cuban,a., Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.
Cubby,n., Alt. of Cubbyhole
Cubed,imp. & p. p., of Cube
Cubeb,n., The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in med., Cubeba officinalis
Cubic,a., Alt. of Cubical
Cubit,n., The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbow to wrist. 
Cuddy,n., An ass; esp., one driven by a huckster or greengrocer. 
Cuffy,n., A name for a negro.
Cufic,a., Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language.
Cuish,n., Defensive armor for the thighs.
Culex,n., A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito. 
Culls,v. t., Refuse timber, from which the best part has been culled out. 
Cully,n., A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe; a gull. 
Culpa,n., Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit, fraud
Culpe,n., Blameworthiness.
Cumic,a., See Cuming.
Cumin,n., A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel (Cuminum Cyminum
Cupel,n., A shallow porous cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime
Cupid,n ., The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked, winged boy with bow and arrow. 
Curat,n., A cuirass or breastplate.
Curch,n., See Courche.
Curdy,a., Like curd; full of curd; coagulated.
Cured,imp. & p. p., of Cure
Curer,n., One who cures; a healer; a physician.
Curle,pl. , of Curia
Curia,n., One of the thirty parts into which the Roman people were divided by Romulus.
Curio,n., Any curiosity or article of virtu.
Curly,a., Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled.
Curry,v. t., To dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, beating, smoothing, and coloring; -- said of leather. 
Curst,, of Curse
Curse,v. t., To call upon divine or supernatural power to send injury upon; to imprecate evil upon; to execrate.
Curst,, imp. & p. p. of Curse.
Curve,a., Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface. 
Cutch,n., See Catechu.
Cutin,n., The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall, makes it waterproof, as in cork. 
Cutis,n., See Dermis.
Cytty,a., Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark. 
Cutty,n., A short spoon.
Cycad,n., Any plant of the natural order Cycadaceae, as the sago palm, etc. 
Cycas,n., A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms and the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes a valuable kind of sago. 
Cycle,n., An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial spheres.
Cyder,n., See Cider.
Cymar,n., A slight covering; a scarf. See Simar.
Cymry,n., A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves .
Cynic,a., Alt. of Cynical
Czech,n., One of the Czechs.
Dadle,v. i., To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly. 
Daddy,n., Diminutive of Dad.
Dagos,pl. , of Dago
Dagon,, The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish. 
Daily,a., Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin. 
Daint,n., Something of exquisite taste; a dainty.
Dairy,n., The place, room, or house where milk is kept, and converted into butter or cheese. 
Daisy,n., A genus of low herbs (Bellis
Daker,n., Alt. of Dakir
Dakir,n., A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs. 
Daker,, The corncrake or land rail.
Dally,v. i., To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to trifle. 
Daman,n., A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit. See Cony, and Hyrax. 
Damar,n., See Dammar.
Dampy,a., Somewhat damp.
Dance,v. i., To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly
Dancy,a., Same as Dancette.
Dandi,n., A boatman; an oarsman.
Dandy,n., One who affects special finery or gives undue attention to dress; a fop; a coxcomb.
Dansk,a., Danish.
Darby,n., A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc. 
Durst,imp., of Dare
Dared,, of Dare
Darer,n., One who dares or defies.
Daric,n., A gold coin of ancient Persia, weighing usually a little more than 128 grains, and bearing on one side the figure of an archer. 
Darky,n., A negro.
Daroo,n., The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus
Dashy,a., Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy.
Daswe,v. i., See Dasewe
Dated,imp. & p. p., of Date
Dater,n., One who dates.
Datum,n., Something given or admitted; a fact or principle granted; that upon which an inference or an argument is based; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Dauby,a., Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive.
Daunt,v. t., To overcome; to conquer.
Davit,n., A spar formerly used on board of ships, as a crane to hoist the flukes of the anchor to the top of the bow, without injuring the sides of the ship; -- called also the fish davit. 
Dazed,imp. & p. p., of Daze
Deads,n. pl., The substances which inclose the ore on every side.
Dealt,imp. & p. p., of Deal
Deare,, variant of Dere, v. t. & n. 
Dearn,a., Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful.
Deary,n., A dear; a darling.
Death,v. i., The cessation of all vital phenomena without capability of resuscitation, either in animals or plants. 
Deave,v. t., To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen.
Debar,v. t., To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of. 
Debel,v. t., To conquer.
Debit,n., A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.
Debut,n., A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker. 
Decad,n., A decade.
Decay,v. i., To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state, to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; to decline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot; to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay. 
Decil,n., Alt. of Decile
Decoy,v. t., To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare; to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops into an ambush; to decoy ducks into a net. 
Decry,v. t., To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; to clamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage. 
Decyl,n., A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, but regarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compounds of the paraffin series. 
Deedy,a., Industrious; active.
Deess,n., A goddess.
Defer,v. t., To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay the execution of; to delay; to withhold.
Defix,v. t., To fix; to fasten; to establish.
Defly,adv., Deftly.
Deify,v. t., To make a god of; to exalt to the rank of a deity; to enroll among the deities; to apotheosize; as, Julius Caesar was deified. 
Deign,v. t., To esteem worthy; to consider worth notice; -- opposed to disdain.
Deism,n., The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of those who acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation. 
Deist,n., One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealed religion; a freethinker. 
Deity,n., The collection of attributes which make up the nature of a god; divinity; godhead; as, the deity of the Supreme Being is seen in his works. 
Dekle,n., See Deckle.
Delay,v., A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingering inactivity; stop; detention; hindrance.
Deled,imp. & p. p., of Dele
Delft,n., Same as Delftware.
Delit,n., Delight.
Della,, A shortened form of Accademia della Crusca, an academy in Florence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially for conserving the purity of the Italian language. 
Deloo,n., The duykerbok.
Delph,n., Delftware.
Delta,n., A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (/
Delve,v. t., To dig; to open (the ground
Demit,v. t., To let fall; to depress.
Demon,n., A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place between men and deities in pagan mythology. 
Demur,v. i., To linger; to stay; to tarry.
Denay,v. t., To deny.
Denim,n., A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc. 
Dense,a., Having the constituent parts massed or crowded together; close; compact; thick; containing much matter in a small space; heavy; opaque; as, a dense crowd; a dense forest; a dense fog. 
Depot,n., A place of deposit for the storing of goods; a warehouse; a storehouse.
Depth,n., The quality of being deep; deepness; perpendicular measurement downward from the surface, or horizontal measurement backward from the front; as, the depth of a river; the depth of a body of troops. 
Deray,n., Disorder; merriment.
Derby,n., A race for three-old horses, run annually at Epsom (near London
Derma,n., See Dermis.
Derne,a., To hide; to skulk.
Derre,a., Dearer.
Derth,n., Dearth; scarcity.
Deter,v. t., To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action by fear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc. 
Dette,n., Debt.
Detur,n., A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate student as a prize.
Deuce,n., Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts. 
Deuse,a., Alt. of Deused
Devex,a., Bending down; sloping.
Devil,n., The Evil One; Satan, represented as the tempter and spiritual of mankind. 
Devon,n., One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country of Devon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small, longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by the superiority of its working oxen. 
Devow,v. t., To give up; to devote.
Dewed,imp. & p. p., of Dew
Dhole,n., A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis
Dhony,n., A Ceylonese boat. See Doni.
Diana,n., The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess who presided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with the Greek goddess Artemis. 
Diary,n., A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary. 
Diced,imp. & p. p., of Dice
Dicer,n., A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester.
Dicky,n., A seat behind a carriage, for a servant. 
Dicta,n. pl., See Dictum.
Didal,n., A kind of triangular spade.
Didos,pl. , of Dido
Didst,, the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.
Didym,n., See Didymium.
Dying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Die
Dight,imp. & p. p., of Dight
Digit,n., One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger or toe.
Digne,a., Worthy; honorable; deserving.
Digue,n., A bank; a dike.
Diked,imp. & p. p., of Dike
Diker,n., A ditcher.
Dildo,n., A burden in popular songs.
Dilly,n., A kind of stagecoach.
Dimit,v. t., To dismiss, let go, or release. 
Dimly,adv., In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; with imperfect sight.
Dimmy,a., Somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes. 
Dimya,n. pl., Alt. of Dimyaria
Dinar,n., A petty money of accounts of Persia.
Dined,imp. & p. p., of Dine
Diner,n., One who dines.
Dingy,n., Alt. of Dinghy
Dingo,n., A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introduced at a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and a reddish brown color. 
Dingy,superl., Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty.
Diota,n., A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears.
Dirge,a., A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn. 
Dirty,superl., Defiled with dirt; foul; nasty; filthy; not clean or pure; serving to defile; as, dirty hands; dirty water; a dirty white. 
Disci,pl. , of Discus
Disme,n., A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe.
Ditch,n., A trench made in the earth by digging, particularly a trench for draining wet land, for guarding or fencing inclosures, or for preventing an approach to a town or fortress. In the latter sense, it is called also a moat or a fosse. 
Ditto,n., The aforesaid thing; the same (as before
Ditty,v. t., A saying or utterance; especially, one that is short and frequently repeated; a theme. 
Divan,n., A book; esp., a collection of poems written by one author; as, the divan of Hafiz. 
Dived,imp. & p. p., of Dive
Divel,v. t., To rend apart.
Diver,n., One who, or that which, dives. 
Dives,n., The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parable of the   Rich Man and Lazarus   (Luke xvi. 19-31
Divet,n., See Divot.
Divot,n., A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel. 
Dixie,n., A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the United States, esp. during the Civil War. 
Dizen,v. t., To dress; to attire.
Dizzy,superl., Having in the head a sensation of whirling, with a tendency to fall; vertiginous; giddy; hence, confused; indistinct. 
Jjinn,pl. , of Djinnee
Doing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Do
Doand,p. pr., Doing.
Dodge,v. i., To start suddenly aside, as to avoid a blow or a missile; to shift place by a sudden start. 
Dogal,a., Of or pertaining to a doge.
Dogma,n., That which is held as an opinion; a tenet; a doctrine.
Doily,n., A kind of woolen stuff.
Doing,n., Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in the plural, conduct; behavior. See Do. 
Dolce,adv., Alt. of Dolcemente
Doled,imp. & p. p., of Dole
Dolly,n., A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch, and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer. 
Dolor,n., Pain; grief; distress; anguish.
Dolus,n., Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa. 
Domal,a., Pertaining to a house.
Domed,a., Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome.
Donat,n., A grammar.
Donax,n., A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax
Donee,n., The person to whom a gift or donation is made.
Donet,n., Same as Donat. Piers Plowman.
Donna,n., A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.
Donor,n., One who gives or bestows; one who confers anything gratuitously; a benefactor.
Doole,n., Sorrow; dole.
Dooly,n., A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carrying persons or things; a palanquin. 
Doree,n., A European marine fish (Zeus faber
Doric,a., Pertaining to Doris, in ancient Greece, or to the Dorians; as, the Doric dialect. 
Doris,n., A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiae on the back.
Dorse,n., Same as dorsal, n. 
Dosed,imp. & p. p., of Dose
Dosel,n., Same as Dorsal, n. 
Dotal,a., Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion; constituting dower, or comprised in it. 
Doted,imp. & p. p., of Dote
Doter,n., One who dotes; a man whose understanding is enfeebled by age; a dotard.
Douar,n., A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.
Douay,, A translation of the Scriptures into the English language for the use of English-speaking Roman Catholics; -- done from the Latin Vulgate by English scholars resident in France. The New Testament portion was published at Rheims, A. D. 1582, the Old Testament at Douai, A. D. 1609-10. Various revised editions have since been published. 
Doubt,v. i., To waver in opinion or judgment; to be in uncertainty as to belief respecting anything; to hesitate in belief; to be undecided as to the truth of the negative or the affirmative proposition; to b e undetermined.
Douce,a., Sweet; pleasant.
Dough,n., Paste of bread; a soft mass of moistened flour or meal, kneaded or unkneaded, but not yet baked; as, to knead dough. 
Doupe,n., The carrion crow.
Doura,n., A kind of millet. See Durra.
Douse,v. t., To plunge suddenly into water; to duck; to immerse; to dowse.
Dowdy,superl., Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking.
Dowel,n., A pin, or block, of wood or metal, fitting into holes in the abutting portions of two pieces, and being partly in one piece and partly in the other, to keep them in their proper relative position. 
Dower,n., That with which one is gifted or endowed; endowment; gift.
Dowle,n., Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather.
Downy,a., Covered with down, or with pubescence or soft hairs. 
Dowry,n., A gift; endowment.
Dowse,v. t., To plunge, or duck into water; to immerse; to douse. 
Dowst,n., A dowse.
Dowve,n., A dove.
Doyly,n., See Doily.
Dozed,imp. & p. p., of Doze
Dozen,pl. , of Dozen
Dozer,n., One who dozes or drowses.
Draco,n., The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the north pole of the ecliptic. 
Draff,n., Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash; waste matter.
Draft,a., Pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.
Drail,v. t. & i., To trail; to draggle.
Drain,v. t., To draw off by degrees; to cause to flow gradually out or off; hence, to cause the exhaustion of. 
Drake,n., The male of the duck kind.
Drama,n., A composition, in prose or poetry, accommodated to action, and intended to exhibit a picture of human life, or to depict a series of grave or humorous actions of more than ordinary interest, tending toward some striking result. It is commonly designed to be spoken and represented by actors on the stage. 
Drank,imp., of Drink.
Drape,v. t., To cover or adorn with drapery or folds of cloth, or as with drapery; as, to drape a bust, a building, etc. 
Drave,, old imp. of Drive.
Drawn,p. p., of Draw
Drawl,v. t., To utter in a slow, lengthened tone. 
Drawn,p. p. & a., See Draw, v. t. & i. 
Dread,v. t., To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension. 
Dream,n., The thoughts, or series of thoughts, or imaginary transactions, which occupy the mind during sleep; a sleeping vision. 
Drear,a., Dismal; gloomy with solitude.
Drein,v. i., To drain.
Drent,p. p., Drenched; drowned.
Drest,, of Dress
Dress,v. t., To direct; to put right or straight; to regulate; to order.
Drest,p. p., of Dress.
Dreul,v. i., To drool.
Dreye,a., Dry.
Dried,imp. & p. p., of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples. 
Drier,n., One who, or that which, dries; that which may expel or absorb moisture; a desiccative; as, the sun and a northwesterly wind are great driers of the earth. 
Drift,n., A driving; a violent movement.
Drill,v. t., To pierce or bore with a drill, or a with a drill; to perforate; as, to drill a hole into a rock; to drill a piece of metal. 
Drily,adv., See Dryly.
Drank,imp., of Drink
Drunk,, of Drink
Drink,v. i., To swallow anything liquid, for quenching thirst or other purpose; to imbibe; to receive or partake of, as if in satisfaction of thirst; as, to drink from a spring. 
Dript,, of Drip
Drove,imp., of Drive
Drave,, of Drive
Drive,v. t., To impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail; smoke drives persons from a room. 
Drock,n., A water course.
Droil,v. i., To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod.
Droit,n., A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also, in old law, the writ of right. 
Droll,superl., Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange. 
Drome,n., The crab plover (Dromas ardeola
Drone,v. i., The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey. See Honeybee. 
Drony,a., Like a drone; sluggish; lazy.
Drool,v. i., To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools. 
Droop,v. i., To hang bending downward; to sink or hang down, as an animal, plant, etc., from physical inability or exhaustion, want of nourishment, or the like. 
Dropt,, of Drop
Dross,n., The scum or refuse matter which is thrown off, or falls from, metals in smelting the ore, or in the process of melting; recrement. 
Drove,imp., of Drive.
Drovy,a., Turbid; muddy; filthy.
Drown,v. i., To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water.
Druid,n., One of an order of priests which in ancient times existed among certain branches of the Celtic race, especially among the Gauls and Britons. 
Drunk,a., Intoxicated with, or as with, strong drink; inebriated; drunken; -- never used attributively, but always predicatively; as, the man is drunk (not, a drunk man
Drupe,n., A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarp is succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry and subcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut. 
Druse,n., A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode. 
Drusy,a., Alt. of Drused
Druxy,a., Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber.
Dried,imp. & p. p., of Dry
Dryad,n., A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree.
Dryas,n., A dryad.
Dryer,n., See Drier.
Dryly,adv., In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly.
Dryth,n., Alt. of Drith
Drith,n., Drought.
Ducal,a., Of or pertaining to a duke.
Ducat,n., A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries in Europe; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke. 
Duces,, A judicial process commanding a person to appear in court and bring with him some piece of evidence or other thing to be produced to the court.
Duchy,n., The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.
Duelo,n., A duel; also, the rules of dueling. 
Due?a,n., See Do?a.
Dulce,v. t., To make sweet; to soothe.
Dulia,n., An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angels and saints as the servants of God. 
Dully,adv., In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life or spirit.
Dulse,n., A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten, as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common is Rhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.] 
Dumal,a., Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly. 
Dummy,a., Silent; mute; noiseless; as a dummy engine.
Dumpy,superl., Short and thick; of low stature and disproportionately stout.
Dunce,n., One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull or weak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.
Dungy,a., Full of dung; filthy; vile; low.
Dunny,a., Deaf; stupid.
Duomo,n., A cathedral. See Dome, 2. 
Duped,imp. & p. p., of Dupe
Duper,n., One who dupes another.
Duple,a., Double.
Dural,a., Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater. 
Durga,n., Same as Doorga.
Durio,n., A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known
Durra,n., A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introduced into the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- called also Indian millet, and Guinea corn. 
Durst,imp., of Dare. See Dare, v. i. 
Dusky,a., Partially dark or obscure; not luminous; dusk; as, a dusky valley. 
Dusty,superl., Filled, covered, or sprinkled with dust; clouded with dust; as, a dusty table; also, reducing to dust. 
Dutch,a., Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants. 
Dwale,a., The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna
Dwang,n., A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffen and support them. 
Dwarf,n., An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of its species or kind; especially, a diminutive human being. 
Dwaul,v. i., Alt. of Dwaule
Dwelt,, of Dwell
Dwell,v. i., To delay; to linger.
Dwelt,imp. & p. p., of Dwell.
Dwine,v. i., To waste away; to pine; to languish.
Dyaks,n. pl., The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain many barbarous practices. 
Dying,a., In the act of dying; destined to death; mortal; perishable; as, dying bodies. 
Dynam,n., A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound. See Foot pound.
Eager,a., Sharp; sour; acid.
Eagle,n., Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliaeetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength, size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight. The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetus
Eagre,n., A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore. See Bore. 
Eared,imp. & p. p., of Ear
Earal,a., Receiving by the ear.
Eared,a., Having (such or so many
Early,adv., Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early. 
Earsh,n., See Arrish.
Earst,adv., See Erst.
Earth,n., The globe or planet which we inhabit; the world, in distinction from the sun, moon, or stars. Also, this world as the dwelling place of mortals, in distinction from the dwelling place of spirits. 
Eased,imp. & p. p., of Ease
Easel,n., A frame (commonly
Eaten,p. p., of Eat
Eater,n., One who, or that which, eats. 
Eaves,n. pl., The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, which overhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof. 
Ebbed,imp. & p. p., of Ebb
Eblis,n., The prince of the evil spirits; Satan.
Ebony,n., A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polish or gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green. 
Eccle,n., The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall, yaffle. 
Echon,pron., Alt. of Echoon
Eclat,n., Brilliancy of success or effort; splendor; brilliant show; striking effect; glory; renown.
Ectad,adv., Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad.
Ectal,a., Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposed to ental. 
Eddas,pl. , of Edda
Eddic,a., Relating to the Eddas; resembling the Eddas.
Edder,n., An adder or serpent.
Edema,n., Same as oedema.
Edged,imp. & p. p., of Edge
Edict,n., A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; the proclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by the very act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Roman emperors; the edicts of the French monarch. 
Edify,v. i., To build; to construct.
Edile,n., See Aedile.
Educe,v. t., To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce against counter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe a form from matter. 
Educt,n., That which is educed, as by analysis. 
Eerie,a., Alt. of Eery
Effet,n., The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt. 
Egean,a., See Aegean.
Egest,v. t., To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as the indigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete by the lungs, skin, or kidneys. 
Egged,imp. & p. p., of Egg
Eggar,n., Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as, the oak eggar (L. roboris
Egger,n., One who gathers eggs; an eggler.
Eghen,n. pl., Eyes.
Egret,n., The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on the back. They are generally white. Among the best known species are the American egret (Ardea, / Herodias, egretta
Eider,n., Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateria mollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America, and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body
Eight,n., An island in a river; an ait.
Eigne,a., Eldest; firstborn.
Eikon,n., An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, and rarely for a work of art. 
Eirie,n., See Aerie, and Eyrie. 
Eisel,n., Vinegar; verjuice.
Eject,v. t., To expel; to dismiss; to cast forth; to thrust or drive out; to discharge; as, to eject a person from a room; to eject a traitor from the country; to eject words from the language. 
Eking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Eke
Elain,n., Same as Olein.
Eland,n., A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna
Elaps,n., A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the Old World. Many species are known. See Coral snake, under Coral. 
Elate,a., Lifted up; raised; elevated.
Elayl,n., Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from its forming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] See Ethylene.
Elbow,n., The joint or bend of the arm; the outer curve in the middle of the arm when bent.
Elder,a., Older; more aged, or existing longer. 
Elect,a., Chosen; taken by preference from among two or more.
Elegy,n., A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem of lamentation.
Elemi,n., A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly from tropical trees of the genera Amyris and Canarium. A. elemifera yields Mexican elemi; C. commune, the Manila elemi. It is used in the manufacture of varnishes, also in ointments and plasters. 
Eleve,n., A pupil; a student.
Elves,pl. , of Elf
Elfin,a., Relating to elves.
Elgin,, Greek sculptures in the British Museum. They were obtained at Athens, about 1811, by Lord Elgin. 
Elide,v. t., To break or dash in pieces; to demolish; as, to elide the force of an argument. 
Elite,n., A choice or select body; the flower; as, the elite of society. 
Elles,adv. & conj., See Else.
Elmen,a., Belonging to elms.
Eloge,n., A panegyrical funeral oration.
Elogy,n., The praise bestowed on a person or thing; panegyric; eulogy.
Eloin,v. t., See Eloign.
Elong,v. t., To lengthen out; to prolong.
Elope,v. t., To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station to which one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man, either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or a sweetheart. 
Elops,n., A genus of fishes. See Saury.
Elsin,n., A shoemaker's awl.
Elude,v. t., To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escape from in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle; as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search, comprehension; to elude the force of an argument or a blow. 
Elute,v. t., To wash out.
Elvan,a., Pertaining to elves; elvish.
Elver,n., A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene.
Embar,v. t., To bar or shut in; to inclose securely, as with bars. 
Embay,v. t., To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing.
Embed,v. t., To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as, to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand. 
Ember,n., A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in the plural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains of a fire. 
Embow,v. t., To bend like a bow; to curve.
Embox,v. t., To inclose, as in a box; to imbox. 
Emeer,n., Same as Emir.
Emend,v. t., To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to make corrections in (a literary work
Emery,n., Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts for grinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed with more or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum. 
Emeer,n., An Arabian military commander, independent chieftain, or ruler of a province; also, an honorary title given to the descendants of Mohammed, in the line of his daughter Fatima; among the Turks, likewise, a title of dignity, given to certain high officials. 
Emmet,n., An ant.
Emmew,v. t., To mew or coop up.
Emong,prep., Alt. of Emongst
Emove,v. t., To move.
Empte,v. t., To empty.
Empty,superl., Containing nothing; not holding or having anything within; void of contents or appropriate contents; not filled; -- said of an inclosure, as a box, room, house, etc.; as, an empty chest, room, purse, or pitcher; an empty stomach; empty shackles. 
Emule,v. t., To emulate.
Emyds,pl. , of Emyd
Enact,v. t., To decree; to establish by legal and authoritative act; to make into a law; especially, to perform the legislative act with reference to (a bill
Enate,a., Growing out.
Ended,imp. & p. p., of End
Ender,n., One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, the ender of my life. 
Endow,v. t., To furnish with money or its equivalent, as a permanent fund for support; to make pecuniary provision for; to settle an income upon; especially, to furnish with dower; as, to endow a wife; to endow a public institution. 
Endue,v. t., To invest.
Eneid,n., Same as Aeneid.
Enema,n., An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine, or to impart nourishment. 
Enemy,n., One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attempts the injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to a person; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood. 
Engle,n., A favorite; a paramour; an ingle.
Engyn,, Variant of Engine.
Enjoy,v. t., To take pleasure or satisfaction in the possession or experience of; to feel or perceive with pleasure; to be delighted with; as, to enjoy the dainties of a feast; to enjoy conversation. 
Enlay,v. t., See Inlay.
Enmew,v. t., See Emmew.
Ennew,v. t., To make new.
Ennui,n., A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor of spirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium. 
Enode,v. t., To clear of knots; to make clear.
Enorm,a., Enormous.
Ensky,v. t., To place in the sky or in heaven.
Ensue,v. t., To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake.
Entad,adv., Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; -- opposed to ectad.
Ental,a., Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner; -- opposed to ectal. 
Enter,v. t., To come or go into; to pass into the interior of; to pass within the outer cover or shell of; to penetrate; to pierce; as, to enter a house, a closet, a country, a door, etc.; the river enters the sea. 
Entry,n., The act of entering or passing into or upon; entrance; ingress; hence, beginnings or first attempts; as, the entry of a person into a house or city; the entry of a river into the sea; the entry of air into the blood; an entry upon an undertaking. 
Enure,v. t., See Inure.
Envie,v. i., To vie; to emulate; to strive.
Envoy,n., One dispatched upon an errand or mission; a messenger; esp., a person deputed by a sovereign or a government to negotiate a treaty, or transact other business, with a foreign sovereign or government; a minister accredited to a foreign government. An envoy's rank is below that of an ambassador. 
Eolic,a. & n., See Aeolic.
Eolis,n., A genus of nudibranch mollusks having clusters of branchial papillae along the back. See Ceratobranchia.
Eosin,n., A yellow or brownish red dyestuff obtained by the action of bromine on fluorescein, and named from the fine rose-red which it imparts to silk. It is also used for making a fine red ink. Its solution is fluorescent. 
Eozoa,pl. , of Eozoon
Epact,n., The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or the number of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginning of the year. 
Ephah,n., Alt. of Epha
Ephod,n., A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering for the back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps or brooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of the same stuff as the ephod. The ephod for the priests was of plain linen; that for the high priest was richly embroidered in colors. The breastplate of the high priest was worn upon the ephod in front. 
Ephor,n., A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by the people of ancient Sparta. They exercised control even over the king.
Epoch,n., A fixed point of time, established in history by the occurrence of some grand or remarkable event; a point of time marked by an event of great subsequent influence; as, the epoch of the creation; the birth of Christ was the epoch which gave rise to the Christian era. 
Epode,n., The after song; the part of a lyric ode which follows the strophe and antistrophe, -- the ancient ode being divided into strophe, antistrophe, and epode. 
Epopt,n., One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system.
Epsom,, Alt. of salt
Epure,n., A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of the full size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing. 
Equal,a., Agreeing in quantity, size, quality, degree, value, etc.; having the same magnitude, the same value, the same degree, etc.; -- applied to number, degree, quantity, and intensity, and to any subject which admits of them; neither inferior nor superior, greater nor less, better nor worse; corresponding; alike; as, equal quantities of land, water, etc. ; houses of equal size; persons of equal stature or talents; commodities of equal value. 
Equip,v. t., To furnish for service, or against a need or exigency; to fit out; to supply with whatever is necessary to efficient action in any way; to provide with arms or an armament, stores, munitions, rigging, etc.; -- said esp. of ships and of troops. 
Equus,n., A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc. 
Erase,v. t., To rub or scrape out, as letters or characters written, engraved, or painted; to efface; to expunge; to cross out; as, to erase a word or a name. 
Erato,n., The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry.
Erect,a., Upright, or having a vertical position; not inverted; not leaning or bent; not prone; as, to stand erect. 
Erven,pl. , of Erf
Ergat,v. t., To deduce logically, as conclusions. 
Ergot,n., A diseased condition of rye and other cereals, in which the grains become black, and often spur-shaped. It is caused by a parasitic fungus, Claviceps purpurea. 
Erica,n., A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of them producing beautiful flowers. 
Ermin,n., An Armenian.
Ermit,n., A hermit.
Erode,v. t., To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh. 
Erose,a., Irregular or uneven as if eaten or worn away.
Erred,imp. & p. p., of Err
Error,n., A wandering; a roving or irregular course.
Eruca,n., An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva.
Eruct,v. t., Alt. of Eructate
Erupt,v. t., To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava. 
Escot,n., See Scot, a tax. 
Eskar,n., Alt. of Esker
Esker,n., See Eschar.
Essay,n., An effort made, or exertion of body or mind, for the performance of anything; a trial; attempt; as, to make an essay to benefit a friend. 
Ester,n., An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organic radical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic or inorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fatty acids, oleic, etc. 
Estop,v. t., To impede or bar by estoppel.
Estre,n., The inward part of a building; the interior.
Etaac,n., The blue buck.
Etern,a., Alt. of Eterne
Ethal,n., A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol. See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic. 
Ethel,a., Noble.
Ether,n., A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed to pervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and to be the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often called luminiferous ether. 
Ethic,a., Alt. of Ethical
Ethyl,n., A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series, forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol and ether. 
Etter,n., The stingfish, or lesser weever (Tranchinus vipera
Ettin,n., A giant.
Ettle,v. t., To earn. [Obs.] See Addle, to earn. 
Etude,n., A composition in the fine arts which is intended, or may serve, for a study. 
Etwee,n., See Etui.
Etyma,pl. , of Etymon
Eurus,n., The east wind.
Evade,v. t., To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity, subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly; as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force of an argument. 
Evene,v. i., To happen.
Event,n., That which comes, arrives, or happens; that which falls out; any incident, good or bad. 
Evert,v. t., To overthrow; to subvert.
Every,a. & a. pron., All the parts which compose a whole collection or aggregate number, considered in their individuality, all taken separately one by one, out of an indefinite bumber. 
Evict,v. t., To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramount right or claim of such right; to eject; to oust.
Evite,v. t., To shun.
Evoke,v. t., To call out; to summon forth.
Ewery,n., Alt. of Ewry
Exact,a., Precisely agreeing with a standard, a fact, or the truth; perfectly conforming; neither exceeding nor falling short in any respect; true; correct; precise; as, the clock keeps exact time; he paid the exact debt; an exact copy of a letter; exact accounts. 
Exalt,v. t., To raise high; to elevate; to lift up.
Excel,v. t., To go beyond or surpass in good qualities or laudable deeds; to outdo or outgo, in a good sense. 
Excur,i., To run out or forth; to extend.
Exeat,n., A license for absence from a college or a religious house.
Exect,v. t., To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect.
Exert,v. t., To thrust forth; to emit; to push out.
Exile,n., Forced separation from one's native country; expulsion from one's home by the civil authority; banishment; sometimes, voluntary separation from one's native country. 
Exist,v. i., To be as a fact and not as a mode; to have an actual or real being, whether material or spiritual. 
Exode,n., Departure; exodus; esp., the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt. 
Exody,n., Exodus; withdrawal.
Expel,v. t., To drive or force out from that within which anything is contained, inclosed, or situated; to eject; as to expel air from a bellows. 
Extol,v. t., To place on high; to lift up; to elevate.
Extra,a., Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional; supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work; extra pay. 
Exude,v. t., To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or other liquid matter; to give out. 
Exult,v. i., To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; to rejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart. 
Eyren,pl. , of Ey
Eying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Eye
Eyght,n., An island. See Eyot.
Eyren,n. pl., See Ey, an egg. 
Eyrie,n., Alt. of Eyry
Fable,n., A Feigned story or tale, intended to instruct or amuse; a fictitious narration intended to enforce some useful truth or precept; an apologue. See the Note under Apologue. 
Faced,imp. & p. p., of Face
Faser,n., One who faces; one who puts on a false show; a bold-faced person.
Facet,n., A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond. 
Facia,n., See Fascia.
Facto,adv., In fact; by the act or fact.
Facta,pl. , of Factum
Faded,imp. & p. p., of Fade
Fader,n., Father.
Fadge,a., To fit; to suit; to agree.
Fadme,n., A fathom.
Faery,n. & a., Fairy.
Fagot,n., A bundle of sticks, twigs, or small branches of trees, used for fuel, for raising batteries, filling ditches, or other purposes in fortification; a fascine. 
Faham,n., The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans
Faint,superl., Lacking strength; weak; languid; inclined to swoon; as, faint with fatigue, hunger, or thirst. 
Fairy,n., Enchantment; illusion.
Faith,n., Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony. 
Fakir,n., An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk.
False,superl., Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness. 
Falwe,a. & n., Fallow.
Famed,imp. & p. p., of Fame
Fanal,n., A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light. 
Fancy,n., The faculty by which the mind forms an image or a representation of anything perceived before; the power of combining and modifying such objects into new pictures or images; the power of readily and happily creating and recalling such objects for the purpose of amusement, wit, or embellishment; imagination. 
Fanon,n., A term applied to various articles, as: (a
Farad,n., The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; the capacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motive force of one volt. 
Farce,v. t., To stuff with forcemeat; hence, to fill with mingled ingredients; to fill full; to stuff. 
Farcy,n., A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of the same nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, and farcimen. 
Fared,imp. & p. p., of Fare
Faren,, p. p. of Fare, v. i. 
Farry,n., A farrow.
Farse,n., An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation. 
Fasti,n.pl., The Roman calendar, which gave the days for festivals, courts, etc., corresponding to a modern almanac. 
Fatal,a., Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable. 
Fated,p. p. & a., Decreed by fate; destined; doomed; as, he was fated to rule a factious people. 
Fatly,adv., Grossly; greasily.
Fatty,a., Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross; as, a fatty substance. 
Faugh,interj., An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence. 
Fauld,n., The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch.
Faule,n., A fall or falling band.
Fault,n., Defect; want; lack; default.
Fauna,n., The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna of America; fossil fauna; recent fauna. 
Fauni,pl. , of Faunus
Favas,n., See Favus, n., 2. 
Favel,a., Yellow; fal/ow; dun.
Favor,n., Kind regard; propitious aspect; countenance; friendly disposition; kindness; good will.
Favus,n., A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite. 
Faxed,a., Hairy.
fayed,imp. & p. p., of Fay
Feast,n., A festival; a holiday; a solemn, or more commonly, a joyous, anniversary. 
Feaze,v. t., To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope. 
Fecal,a., relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; faecal. 
Feces,n. pl., dregs; sediment; excrement. See FAeces.
Fecks,n., A corruption of the word faith.
Feere,n., A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere. 
Feese,n., the short run before a leap.
Feeze,v. t., To turn, as a screw. 
Feign,v. t., To give a mental existence to, as to something not real or actual; to imagine; to invent; hence, to pretend; to form and relate as if true. 
Feine,v. t. & i., To feign.
Feint,a., Feigned; counterfeit.
Feize,v. t., See Feeze, v. t. 
Felis,n., A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, the lion, tiger, panther, and similar animals. 
Felly,adv., In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously; savagely.
Felon,a., A person who has committed a felony.
Femme,n., A woman. See Feme, n. 
Femur,n., The thigh bone.
Fence,n., That which fends off attack or danger; a defense; a protection; a cover; security; shield.
Fenks,n., The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in the manufacture of Prussian blue. 
Fenny,a., Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy; boggy. 
Feoff,v. t., To invest with a fee or feud; to give or grant a corporeal hereditament to; to enfeoff.
Ferae,n. pl., A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora, Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted to the Carnivora. 
Feral,a., Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants. 
Ferde,, imp. of Fare.
Feria,n., A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast. 
Ferie,n., A holiday.
Ferly,n., Singular; wonderful; extraordinary.
Ferme,n., Rent for a farm; a farm; also, an abode; a place of residence; as, he let his land to ferm. 
Ferny,a., Abounding in ferns.
Ferre,a. & adv., Alt. of Ferrer
Ferry,v. t., To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrow water, in a boat. 
Fesse,n., A band drawn horizontally across the center of an escutcheon, and containing in breadth the third part of it; one of the nine honorable ordinaries. 
Feste,n., A feast.
Fetal,a., Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetal circulation; fetal membranes. 
Fetch,v. t., To bear toward the person speaking, or the person or thing from whose point of view the action is contemplated; to go and bring; to get. 
fetch,v. i., To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetch about; to fetch to windward. 
Fetch,n., A stratagem by which a thing is indirectly brought to pass, or by which one thing seems intended and another is done; a trick; an artifice. 
Feted,imp. & p. p., of Fete
Fetid,a., Having an offensive smell; stinking.
Fetis,a., Neat; pretty; well made; graceful.
Fetor,n., A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness. 
Fette,imp., of Fette
Fetus,n., The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg; often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparous and oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages. 
Feuar,n., One who holds a feu.
Fever,n., A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Many diseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, are denominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever. 
Fewel,n., Fuel.
Feyne,v. t., To feign.
Feyre,n., A fair or market.
Fiber,n., Alt. of Fibre
Fibre,n., One of the delicate, threadlike portions of which the tissues of plants and animals are in part constituted; as, the fiber of flax or of muscle. 
Fiche,a., See FitchE.
Fichu,n., A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neck and throat, and extending to the shoulders. 
Ficus,n., A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica
Fides,n., Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith.
Fidge,n. & i., See Fidget.
Fidia,n., A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevine Fidia, F. longipes
Field,n., Cleared land; land suitable for tillage or pasture; cultivated ground; the open country.
Fiend,n., An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wicked or cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil or a demon.
Fieri,, A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt or damages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of the goods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed. 
Fiery,a., Consisting of, containing, or resembling, fire; as, the fiery gulf of Etna; a fiery appearance. 
Fifed,imp. & p. p., of Fife
Fifer,n., One who plays on a fife.
Fifth,a., Next in order after the fourth; -- the ordinal of five.
Fifty,a., Five times ten; as, fifty men. 
Fight,v. i., To strive or contend for victory, with armies or in single combat; to attempt to defeat, subdue, or destroy an enemy, either by blows or weapons; to contend in arms; -- followed by with or against. 
Filar,a., Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threads stretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filar micrometer. 
Filch,v. t., To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value
Filed,imp. & p. p., of File
Filer,n., One who works with a file.
Filly,n., A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal. 
Filmy,a., Composed of film or films.
Filth,n., Foul matter; anything that soils or defiles; dirt; nastiness.
Final,a., Pertaining to the end or conclusion; last; terminating; ultimate; as, the final day of a school term. 
Finch,n., A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging to the family Fringillidae. 
Found,imp. & p. p., of Find
Findy,a., Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial.
Fined,imp. & p. p., of Fine
Finer,n., One who fines or purifies.
Finew,n., Moldiness.
Finis,n., An end; conclusion. It is often placed at the end of a book.
Finns,n. pl., Natives of Finland; Finlanders.
Finny,a., Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes. 
Finos,n. pl., Second best wool from Merino sheep.
Fiord,n., A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska. 
Fired,imp. & p. p., of Fire
Fring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fire
Firer,n., One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary.
Firms,a., The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together. 
Firry,a., Made of fir; abounding in firs.
First,a., Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign. 
Firth,n., An arm of the sea; a frith.
Fishy,a., Consisting of fish; fishlike; having the qualities or taste of fish; abounding in fish.
Fitch,n., A vetch.
Fitly,adv., In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim fitly applied. 
Fives,n. pl., A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; -- so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game. 
Fixed,imp. & p. p., of Fix
Fjord,n., See Fiord.
Flail,n., An instrument for threshing or beating grain from the ear by hand, consisting of a wooden staff or handle, at the end of which a stouter and shorter pole or club, called a swipe, is so hung as to swing freely. 
Flain,, p. p. of Flay.
Flake,n., A paling; a hurdle.
Flaky,a., Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike. 
Flame,n., A stream of burning vapor or gas, emitting light and heat; darting or streaming fire; a blaze; a fire. 
Flamy,a., Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.
Flang,n., A miner's two-pointed pick.
Flank,n., The fleshy or muscular part of the side of an animal, between the ribs and the hip. See Illust. of Beef. 
Flare,v. i., To burn with an unsteady or waving flame; as, the candle flares. 
Flash,v. i., To burst or break forth with a sudden and transient flood of flame and light; as, the lighting flashes vividly; the powder flashed. 
Flask,n., A small bottle-shaped vessel for holding fluids; as, a flask of oil or wine. 
Flawn,n., A sort of flat custard or pie.
Flawy,a., Full of flaws or cracks; broken; defective; faulty.
Flaxy,a., Like flax; flaxen.
Fleak,n., A flake; a thread or twist.
Fleam,n., A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet. 
Flear,v. t. & i., See Fleer.
Fleck,n., A flake; also, a lock, as of wool. 
Fleen,n. pl., Obs. pl. of Flea.
Fleer,n., One who flees.
Flear,n., A word or look of derision or mockery.
Fleet,n. & a., To sail; to float.
Fleme,v. t., To banish; to drive out; to expel.
Flesh,n., The aggregate of the muscles, fat, and other tissues which cover the framework of bones in man and other animals; especially, the muscles. 
Flete,v. i., To float; to swim.
Flews,n. pl., The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip of dogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps. See Illust. of Bloodhound. 
Flick,v. t., To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick a horse; to flick the dirt from boots. 
Flier,v., One who flies or flees; a runaway; a fugitive.
Flung,imp. & p. p., of Fling
Fling,v. t., To cast, send, to throw from the hand; to hurl; to dart; to emit with violence as if thrown from the hand; as, to fing a stone into the pond. 
Flint,n., A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and sharp edge. It is very hard, and strikes fire with steel. 
Flipe,v. t., To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, as a stocking in pulling off or for putting on. 
Flirt,v. t., To throw with a jerk or quick effort; to fling suddenly; as, they flirt water in each other's faces; he flirted a glove, or a handkerchief. 
Flisk,v. i., To frisk; to skip; to caper.
Flite,v. i., To scold; to quarrel.
Float,v. i., Anything which floats or rests on the surface of a fluid, as to sustain weight, or to indicate the height of the surface, or mark the place of, something. 
Flock,n., A company or collection of living creatures; -- especially applied to sheep and birds, rarely to persons or (except in the plural
Flong,, imp. & p. p. of Fling.
Flood,v. i., A great flow of water; a body of moving water; the flowing stream, as of a river; especially, a body of water, rising, swelling, and overflowing land not usually thus covered; a deluge; a freshet; an inundation. 
Flook,n., A fluke of an anchor.
Floor,n., The bottom or lower part of any room; the part upon which we stand and upon which the movables in the room are supported.
Flora,n., The goddess of flowers and spring.
Flosh,n., A hopper-shaped box or /nortar in which ore is placed for the action of the stamps.
Floss,n., The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize; also called silk.
Flota,n., A fleet; especially, a /eet of Spanish ships which formerly sailed every year from Cadiz to Vera Cruz, in Mexico, to transport to Spain the production of Spanish America. 
Flote,v. t., To fleet; to skim.
Flour,n., The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain; especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, the fine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour of mustard. 
Flout,v. t., To mock or insult; to treat with contempt.
Flowk,n., See 1st Fluke.
Flown,, p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as, the birds are flown. 
Fluey,a., Downy; fluffy.
Fluff,n., Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers. 
Fluid,a., Having particles which easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield to pressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous. 
Fluke,n., The European flounder. See Flounder.
Fluky,a., Formed like, or having, a fluke. 
Flume,n., A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for the water that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water for hydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs or lumber down a declivity. 
Flung,, imp. & p. p. of Fling.
Flunk,v. i., To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking, through fear. 
Fluor,n., A fluid state.
Flurt,n., A flirt.
Flush,v. i., To flow and spread suddenly; to rush; as, blood flushes into the face. 
Flute,v. i., A musical wind instrument, consisting of a hollow cylinder or pipe, with holes along its length, stopped by the fingers or by keys which are opened by the fingers. The modern flute is closed at the upper end, and blown with the mouth at a lateral hole. 
Fluty,a., Soft and clear in tone, like a flute. 
Flown,p. p., of Fly
Flies,pl. , of Fly
Flyer,n., One that uses wings.
Fnese,v. i., To breathe heavily; to snort.
Foamy,a., Covered with foam; frothy; spumy.
Focal,a., Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point. 
Focus,n., A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflected or refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of a lens or mirror. 
Foggy,superl., Filled or abounding with fog, or watery exhalations; misty; as, a foggy atmosphere; a foggy morning. 
Fogie,n., See Fogy.
Foist,n., A light and fast-sailing ship.
Folio,n., A leaf of a book or manuscript.
Folia,pl. , of Folium
Folks,n. collect. & pl., In Anglo-Saxon times, the people of a group of townships or villages; a community; a tribe. 
Folly,n., The state of being foolish; want of good sense; levity, weakness, or derangement of mind. 
Folwe,v. t., To follow.
Fomes,n., Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining, and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothes are said to be active fomites. 
Fonde,v. t. & i., To endeavor; to strive; to try.
Fonge,v. t., To take; to receive.
Fonly,adv., Foolishly; fondly.
Fonne,n., A fon.
Foody,a., Eatable; fruitful.
Foots,n. pl., The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrel or hogshead. 
Footy,a., Having foots, or settlings; as, footy oil, molasses, etc. 
Foray,n., A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid. 
Forby,adv. & prep., Near; hard by; along; past.
Force,v. t., To stuff; to lard; to farce.
Fordo,v. i., To destroy; to undo; to ruin.
Forel,n., A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill.
Forge,n., A place or establishment where iron or other metals are wrought by heating and hammering; especially, a furnace, or a shop with its furnace, etc., where iron is heated and wrought; a smithy. 
Forgo,v. i., To pass by; to leave. See 1st Forego.
Forky,a., Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated.
Forme,a., Same as Pate or Patte.
Forte,n., The strong point; that in which one excels.
Forth,adv., Forward; onward in time, place, or order; in advance from a given point; on to end; as, from that day forth; one, two, three, and so forth. 
Forty,a., Four times ten; thirty-nine and one more.
Forum,n., A market place or public place in Rome, where causes were judicially tried, and orations delivered to the people. 
Fossa,n., A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth; as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossae containing the nostrils in most birds. 
Fosse,n., A ditch or moat.
Foule,adv., Foully.
Found,, imp. & p. p. of Find.
Fount,n., A font.
Fourb,n., Alt. of Fourbe
Fouty,a., Despicable.
Fovea,n., A slight depression or pit; a fossa.
Fowls,pl. , of Fowl
Foxes,pl. , of Fox
Foxed,imp. & p. p., of Fox
Fract,v. t., To break; to violate.
Foxed,a., Discolored or stained; -- said of timber, and also of the paper of books or engravings. 
Foxes,n. pl., See Fox, n., 7. 
Foxly,a., Foxlike.
Foyer,n., A lobby in a theater; a greenroom.
Frail,n., A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs and raisins. 
Frame,v. t., To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail, Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice. 
Franc,a., A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the French monetary system. It has been adopted by Belgium and Swizerland. It is equivalent to about nineteen cents, or ten pence, and is divided into 100 centimes. 
Frank,n., A pigsty.
Frape,n., A crowd, a rabble. 
Fraud,n., Deception deliberately practiced with a view to gaining an unlawful or unfair advantage; artifice by which the right or interest of another is injured; injurious stratagem; deceit; trick.
Freak,v. t., To variegate; to checker; to streak.
Freck,v. t., To checker; to diversify.
Freed,imp. & p. p., of Free
Freer,n., One who frees, or sets free. 
Froze,imp., of Freeze
Fremd,a., Alt. of Fremed
Frena,pl. , of Frenum
Frere,n., A friar.
Fresh,superl, Possessed of original life and vigor; new and strong; unimpaired; sound.
Frett,n., The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4. 
Freta,pl. , of Fretum
Freya,n., The daughter of Njord, and goddess of love and beauty; the Scandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, but in Scandinavian, distinct. 
Friar,n., A brother or member of any religious order, but especially of one of the four mendicant orders, viz: (a
Fried,, imp. & p. p. of Fry.
Frier,n., One who fries.
Frigg,n., Alt. of Frigga
Frill,v. i., To shake or shiver as with cold; as, the hawk frills. 
Frisk,a., Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky.
Frist,v. t., To sell upon credit, as goods. 
Frith,n., A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a river into the sea; as, the Frith of Forth. 
Frize,n., See 1st Frieze.
Frizz,v. t. & n., See Friz, v. t. & n. 
Frock,n., A loose outer garment; especially, a gown forming a part of European modern costume for women and children; also, a coarse shirtlike garment worn by some workmen over their other clothes; a smock frock; as, a marketman's frock. 
Frond,n., The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond of a fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree. 
Frons,n., The forehead; the part of the cranium between the orbits and the vertex.
Front,n., The forehead or brow, the part of the face above the eyes; sometimes, also, the whole face. 
Frore,adv., Frostily.
Frorn,p. a., Frozen.
Frory,a., Frozen; stiff with cold.
Frost,v. i., The act of freezing; -- applied chiefly to the congelation of water; congelation of fluids.
Frote,v. t., To rub or wear by rubbing; to chafe.
Froth,n., The bubbles caused in fluids or liquors by fermentation or agitation; spume; foam; esp., a spume of saliva caused by disease or nervous excitement. 
Frown,v. i., To contract the brow in displeasure, severity, or sternness; to scowl; to put on a stern, grim, or surly look. 
Frowy,a., Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter. 
Froze,, imp. of Freeze.
Fruit,v. t., Whatever is produced for the nourishment or enjoyment of man or animals by the processes of vegetable growth, as corn, grass, cotton, flax, etc.; -- commonly used in the plural. 
Frump,v. t., To insult; to flout; to mock; to snub.
Frush,v. t., To batter; to break in pieces.
Fried,imp. & p. p., of Fry
Fuage,n., Same as Fumage.
Fubby,a., Alt. of Fubsy
Fubsy,a., Plump; chubby; short and stuffy; as a fubsy sofa.
Fuchs,n., A student of the first year.
Fucus,n., A paint; a dye; also, false show. 
Fudge,n., A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often an exclamation of contempt.
Fuero,n., A code; a charter; a grant of privileges.
Fuffy,a., Light; puffy.
Fugle,v. i., To maneuver; to move hither and thither.
Fugue,n., A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme or themes, according to strict contrapuntal rules. The theme is first given out by one voice or part, and then, while that pursues its way, it is repeated by another at the interval of a fifth or fourth, and so on, until all the parts have answered one by one, continuing their several melodies and interweaving them in one complex progressive whole, in which the theme is often lost and reappears. 
Fulbe,n., Same as Fulahs.
Fully,adv., In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lack or defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded of the truth of a proposition. 
Fumed,imp. & p. p., of Fume
Fumer,n., One that fumes.
Fumet,n., The dung of deer.
Fumid,a., Smoky; vaporous.
Funge,n., A blockhead; a dolt; a fool.
Fungi,n. pl., See Fungus.
Funic,a., Funicular.
Funis,n., A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string. 
Funky,a., Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking. 
Funny,superl., Droll; comical; amusing; laughable.
Furld,imp. & p. p., of Furl
Furry,a., Covered with fur; dressed in fur.
Furze,n., A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europaeus
Furzy,a. a., bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze. 
Fused,imp. & p. p., of Fuse
Fusee,n., A flintlock gun. See 2d Fusil.
Fusel,, Alt. of Fusel oil
Fusil,v. t., Capable of being melted or rendered fluid by heat; fusible.
Fussy,superl, Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about trifles; overnice; fidgety.
Fusty,superl, Moldy; musty; ill-smelling; rank.
Fuzzy,n., Not firmly woven; that ravels.
Fytte,n., See Fit a song.
Gabel,n., A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise. 
Gable,n., A cable.
Gadre,v. t. & i., To gather.
Gadic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus
Gaged,imp. & p. p., of Gage
Gager,n., A measurer. See Gauger.
Gaily,adv., Merrily; showily. See gaily.
Galea,n., The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.
Galei,n. pl., That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks.
Gally,v. t., To frighten; to worry.
Galop,n., A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the dance. 
Galpe,v. i., To gape,; to yawn. 
Gamba,n., A viola da gamba.
Gamed,imp. & p. p., of Game
Gamic,a., Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by the union of the male and female elements. 
Gamin,n., A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.
Gamma,n., The third letter (/, / = Eng. G
Gamut,n., The scale.
Ganch,n., To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment. 
Ganil,n., A kind of brittle limestone.
Ganja,n., The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It is extremely narcotic and intoxicating. 
Gansa,n., Same as Ganza.
Ganza,n., A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled to be carried to the lunar world. 
Gaped,imp. & p. p., of Gape
Gaper,n., One who gapes.
Garth,n., A close; a yard; a croft; a garden; as, a cloister garth. 
Garum,n., A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients.
Gases,pl. , of Gas
Gassy,a., Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full of boastful or insincere talk.
Gated,a., Having gates.
Gaudy,superl., Ostentatiously fine; showy; gay, but tawdry or meretricious. 
Gauge,v. t., To measure or determine with a gauge.
Gault,n., A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England, between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period. 
Gaunt,a., Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched and grim. 
Gaure,v. i., To gaze; to stare.
Gauze,n., A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk; also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze. 
Gauzy,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze. 
Gavel,n., A gable.
Gavot,n., A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which has two brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, each played twice over. 
Gawby,n., A baby; a dunce.
Gawky,superl., Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior. -- n. A fellow who is awkward from being overgrown, or from stupidity, a gawk. 
Gayal,n., A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis
Gayly,adv., With mirth and frolic; merrily; blithely; gleefully.
Gayne,v. i., To avail.
Gazed,imp. & p. p., of Gaze
Gazel,n., The black currant; also, the wild plum. 
Gazer,n., One who gazes.
Gazet,n., A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or one and a half cents. 
Gazon,n., One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and the faces of earthworks.
Gecko,n., Any lizard of the family Geckonidae. The geckoes are small, carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical, elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnished with adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings. They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found in Europe and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot. 
Geese,n., pl. of Goose.
Geest,n., Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin. 
Gelid,a., Cold; very cold; frozen.
Gelly,n., Jelly.
Gemel,a., Coupled; paired.
Gemma,n., A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud. 
Gemmy,n., Full of gems; bright; glittering like a gem.
Gemul,n., A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis
Genet,n., Alt. of Genette
Genie,n., See Genius.
Genio,n., A man of a particular turn of mind.
Genii,pl. , of Genius
Genre,n., A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, which illustrates everyday life and manners. 
Genty,a., Neat; trim.
Genua,pl. , of Genu
Genus,n., A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly divided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts of terms. 
Genys,n., See Gonys.
Geode,n., A nodule of stone, containing a cavity, lined with crystals or mineral matter. 
Gerah,n., A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel.
Gerbe,n., A kind of ornamental firework.
Gesse,v. t. & i., To guess.
Geste,v. i., To tell stories or gests.
Geten,, p. p. of Get.
Ghast,a., To strike aghast; to affright.
Ghaut,n., A pass through a mountain.
Ghess,v. t. & i., See Guess.
Ghole,n., See Ghoul.
Ghost,n., The spirit; the soul of man.
Ghoul,n., An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was supposed to feed upon human bodies. 
Ghyll,n., A ravine. See Gill a woody glen.
Giant,n., A man of extraordinari bulk and stature.
Gibed,imp. & p. p., of Gibe
Gibel,n., A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio
Giber,n., One who utters gibes.
Giddy,superl., Having in the head a sensation of whirling or reeling about; having lost the power of preserving the balance of the body, and therefore wavering and inclined to fall; lightheaded; dizzy. 
Giffy,n., See Jiffy.
Guide,n., The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder. 
Gigot,n., Alt. of Giggot
Gilse,n., See Grilse.
Gipsy,n. a., See Gypsy.
Girth,n., A band or strap which encircles the body; especially, one by which a saddle is fastened upon the back of a horse. 
Gisle,n., A pledge.
Guist,n., Same as Joust.
Given,p. p., of Give
Giver,n., One who gives; a donor; a bestower; a grantor; one who imparts or distributes.
Gives,n., Fetters.
Glade,n., An open passage through a wood; a grassy open or cleared space in a forest.
Glair,a., The white of egg. It is used as a size or a glaze in bookbinding, for pastry, etc. 
Glama,n., A copious gummy secretion of the humor of the eyelids, in consequence of some disorder; blearedness; lippitude. 
Gland,n., An organ for secreting something to be used in, or eliminated from, the body; as, the sebaceous glands of the skin; the salivary glands of the mouth. 
Glans,n., The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and the extremity of the clitoris. 
Glare,v. i., To shine with a bright, dazzling light. 
Glary,a., Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth.
Glass,v. t., A hard, brittle, translucent, and commonly transparent substance, white or colored, having a conchoidal fracture, and made by fusing together sand or silica with lime, potash, soda, or lead oxide. It is used for window panes and mirrors, for articles of table and culinary use, for lenses, and various articles of ornament. 
Glaum,v. i., To grope with the hands, as in the dark. 
Glave,n., See Glaive.
Glase,v. t., To furnish (a window, a house, a sash, a ease, etc.
Glaze,v. i., To become glazed of glassy.
Glazy,a., Having a glazed appearance; -- said of the fractured surface of some kinds of pin iron.
Glead,n., A live coal. See Gleed.
Gleam,v. i., To disgorge filth, as a hawk. 
Glean,v. t., To gather after a reaper; to collect in scattered or fragmentary parcels, as the grain left by a reaper, or grapes left after the gathering. 
Glebe,n., A lump; a clod.
Gleby,a., Pertaining to the glebe; turfy; cloddy; fertile; fruitful.
Glede,v. i., The common European kite (Milvus ictinus
Gleed,v. i., A live or glowing coal; a glede.
Gleek,n., A jest or scoff; a trick or deception.
Gleen,v. i., To glisten; to gleam.
Gleet,n., A transparent mucous discharge from the membrane of the urethra, commonly an effect of gonorrhea. 
Glent,n. & v., See Glint.
Glide,n., The glede or kite.
Gliff,n., A transient glance; an unexpected view of something that startles one; a sudden fear.
Glike,n., A sneer; a flout.
Glint,n., A glimpse, glance, or gleam. 
Glist,n., Glimmer; mica.
Gloam,v. i., To begin to grow dark; to grow dusky.
Gloar,v. i., To squint; to stare.
Gloat,v. i., To look steadfastly; to gaze earnestly; -- usually in a bad sense, to gaze with malignant satisfaction, passionate desire, lust, or avarice. 
Globe,n., A round or spherical body, solid or hollow; a body whose surface is in every part equidistant from the center; a ball; a sphere. 
Globy,a., Resembling, or pertaining to, a globe; round; orbicular. 
Glode,, imp. of Glide.
Glome,v. i., To gloom; to look gloomy, morose, or sullen. 
Gloom,n., Partial or total darkness; thick shade; obscurity; as, the gloom of a forest, or of midnight. 
Glore,v. i., To glare; to glower.
Glory,n., Praise, honor, admiration, or distinction, accorded by common consent to a person or thing; high reputation; honorable fame; renown. 
Glose,n. & v., See Gloze.
Gloss,n., Brightness or luster of a body proceeding from a smooth surface; polish; as, the gloss of silk; cloth is calendered to give it a gloss. 
Glost,, An oven in which glazed pottery is fired; -- also called glaze kiln, or glaze. 
Glout,v. i., To pout; to look sullen.
Glove,n., A cover for the hand, or for the hand and wrist, with a separate sheath for each finger. The latter characteristic distinguishes the glove from the mitten. 
Gloze,v. i., To flatter; to wheedle; to fawn; to talk smoothly.
Glued,imp. & p. p., of Glue
Gluer,n., One who cements with glue.
Gluey,a., Viscous; glutinous; of the nature of, or like, glue. 
Glume,n., The bracteal covering of the flowers or seeds of grain and grasses; esp., an outer husk or bract of a spikelt. 
Glump,v. i., To manifest sullenness; to sulk.
Glyph,n., A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph. 
Gnarl,v. i., To growl; to snarl.
Gnash,v. t., To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash the teeth. 
Gnide,v. t., To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces.
Gnome,n., An imaginary being, supposed by the Rosicrucians to inhabit the inner parts of the earth, and to be the guardian of mines, quarries, etc. 
Going,p. pr. & vb. n., of Go
Goafs,pl. , of Goaf
Gobet,n., See Gobbet.
Godly,n., Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient to the commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character; conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life. 
Goety,n., Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft.
Going,n., The act of moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is bad. 
Golde,n., Alt. of Goolde
Goden,adv., In golden terms or a golden manner; splendidly; delightfully.
Golet,n., The gullet.
Goman,n., A husband; a master of a family.
Gombo,n., See Gumbo.
Gomer,n., A Hebrew measure. See Homer.
Gonad,n., One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike in both sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; a generative gland; a germ gland. 
Gonys,n., The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as the mandibular rami are united. 
Goods,n. pl., See Good, n., 3. 
Goody,n., A bonbon, cake, or the like; -- usually in the pl. 
Geese,pl. , of Goose
Goose,n., Any large web-footen bird of the subfamily Anserinae, and belonging to Anser, Branta, Chen, and several allied genera. See Anseres. 
Goost,n., Ghost; spirit.
Goral,n., An Indian goat antelope (Nemorhedus goral
Gorce,n., A pool of water to keep fish in; a wear.
Gored,imp. & p. p., of Gore
Gorge,n., The throat; the gullet; the canal by which food passes to the stomach.
Gorma,n., The European cormorant.
Gorse,n., Furze. See Furze.
Goter,n., a gutter.
Gouge,n., A chisel, with a hollow or semicylindrical blade, for scooping or cutting holes, channels, or grooves, in wood, stone, etc.; a similar instrument, with curved edge, for turning wood. 
Bouge,v. t., To scoop out with a gouge.
Goura,n., One of several species of large, crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, inhabiting New Guinea and adjacent islands. The Queen Victoria pigeon (Goura Victoria
Gourd,n., A fleshy, three-celled, many-seeded fruit, as the melon, pumpkin, cucumber, etc., of the order Cucurbitaceae; and especially the bottle gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris
Gouty,a., Diseased with, or subject to, the gout; as, a gouty person; a gouty joint. 
Gowan,n., The daisy, or mountain daisy. 
Graal,n., See Grail., a dish. 
Grace,n., The exercise of love, kindness, mercy, favor; disposition to benefit or serve another; favor bestowed or privilege conferred. 
Grade,n., A step or degree in any series, rank, quality, order; relative position or standing; as, grades of military rank; crimes of every grade; grades of flour. 
Graff,n., A steward; an overseer.
Graft,n., A small shoot or scion of a tree inserted in another tree, the stock of which is to support and nourish it. The two unite and become one tree, but the graft determines the kind of fruit. 
Grail,n., A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual.
Grain,v. & n., See Groan.
Graip,n., A dungfork.
Grama,, The name of several kinds of pasture grasses found in the Western United States, esp. the Bouteloua oligostachya. 
Grame,a., Anger; wrath; scorn.
Grand,superl., Of large size or extent; great; extensive; hence, relatively great; greatest; chief; principal; as, a grand mountain; a grand army; a grand mistake. 
Grane,v. & n., See Groan.
Grant,v. t., To give over; to make conveyance of; to give the possession or title of; to convey; -- usually in answer to petition.
Grape,n., A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters or bunches on the grapevine. The berries are smooth-skinned, have a juicy pulp, and are cultivated in great quantities for table use and for making wine and raisins. 
Grapy,a., Composed of, or resembling, grapes. 
Grasp,v. t., To seize and hold by clasping or embracing with the fingers or arms; to catch to take possession of.
Grass,n., Popularly: Herbage; the plants which constitute the food of cattle and other beasts; pasture.
Grate,a., Serving to gratify; agreeable.
Grave,v. t., To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass, etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or greaves was formerly used for this purpose. 
Gravy,n., The juice or other liquid matter that drips from flesh in cooking, made into a dressing for the food when served up. 
Graze,v. t., To feed or supply (cattle, sheep, etc.
Great,superl., Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; -- opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance, length. 
Grebe,n., One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus (formerly Podiceps
Grees,pl. , of Gree
Grice,pl. , of Gree
Grise,pl. , of Gree
Grize,pl. , of Gree
Greed,n., An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain. 
Greek,a., Of or pertaining to Greece or the Greeks; Grecian.
Green,superl., Having the color of grass when fresh and growing; resembling that color of the solar spectrum which is between the yellow and the blue; verdant; emerald.
Greet,a., Great.
Grege,v. t., Alt. of Gregge
Grego,n., A short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant. 
Greit,v. i., See Greet, to weep. 
Grene,a., Green.
Grete,a., Great.
Greve,n., A grove.
Grice,n., A little pig.
Gride,e. i., To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierce harshly; as, the griding sword. 
Grade,n., A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating.
Grief,a., Pain of mind on account of something in the past; mental suffering arising from any cause, as misfortune, loss of friends, misconduct of one's self or others, etc.; sorrow; sadness. 
Griff,n., Grasp; reach.
Grill,v. t., A gridiron.
Grime,n., Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeply ingrained. 
Grimy,superl., Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul.
Grind,v. t., To reduce to powder by friction, as in a mill, or with the teeth; to crush into small fragments; to produce as by the action of millstones. 
Grint,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Grind, contr. from grindeth. 
Gripe,n., A vulture; the griffin.
Grise,n., See Grice, a pig. 
Grist,n., Ground corn; that which is ground at one time; as much grain as is carried to the mill at one time, or the meal it produces. 
Grith,n., Peace; security; agreement.
Grize,n., Same as 2d Grise.
Groan,v. i., To give forth a low, moaning sound in breathing; to utter a groan, as in pain, in sorrow, or in derision; to moan. 
Groat,n., An old English silver coin, equal to four pence. 
Groin,n., The snout of a swine.
Grond,, obs. imp. of Grind.
Groom,n., A boy or young man; a waiter; a servant; especially, a man or boy who has charge of horses, or the stable. 
Grope,v. i., To feel with or use the hands; to handle.
Gross,superl., Great; large; bulky; fat; of huge size; excessively large.
Grote,n., A groat.
Group,n., A cluster, crowd, or throng; an assemblage, either of persons or things, collected without any regular form or arrangement; as, a group of men or of trees; a group of isles. 
Grout,n., Coarse meal; ground malt; pl. groats.
Grove,v., A smaller group of trees than a forest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as if arranged by art; a wood of small extent. 
Grovy,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, or frequenting, groves. 
Grown,p. p., of Grow
Growl,v. i., To utter a deep guttural sound, sa an angry dog; to give forth an angry, grumbling sound. 
Grown,, p. p. of Grow.
Gruel,n., A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal, or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge. 
Gruff,superl., Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly; severe; harsh. 
Grume,n., A thick, viscid fluid; a clot, as of blood. 
Grunt,v. t., To make a deep, short noise, as a hog; to utter a short groan or a deep guttural sound. 
Gryde,v. i., To gride. See Gride.
Grype,v. t., To gripe.
Guaco,n., A plant (Aristolochia anguicida
Guana,n., See Iguana.
Guano,n., A substance found in great abundance on some coasts or islands frequented by sea fowls, and composed chiefly of their excrement. It is rich in phosphates and ammonia, and is used as a powerful fertilizer. 
Guara,n., The scarlet ibis. See Ibis.
Guard,n., To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; to accompany for protection; to care for. 
Guava,n., A tropical tree, or its fruit, of the genus Psidium. Two varieties are well known, the P. pyriferum, or white guava, and P. pomiferum, or red guava. The fruit or berry is shaped like a pomegranate, but is much smaller. It is somewhat astringent, but makes a delicious jelly. 
Guelf,n., One of a faction in Germany and Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which supported the House of Guelph and the pope, and opposed the Ghibellines, or faction of the German emperors. 
Guess,v. t., To form an opinion concerning, without knowledge or means of knowledge; to judge of at random; to conjecture. 
Guest,n., A visitor; a person received and entertained in one's house or at one's table; a visitor entertained without pay.
Guiac,n., Same as Guaiac.
Guide,v. t., To lead or direct in a way; to conduct in a course or path; to pilot; as, to guide a traveler. 
Gulge,n., See Gige.
Guild,v. t., An association of men belonging to the same class, or engaged in kindred pursuits, formed for mutual aid and protection; a business fraternity or corporation; as, the Stationers' Guild; the Ironmongers' Guild. They were originally licensed by the government, and endowed with special privileges and authority. 
Guile,n., Craft; deceitful cunning; artifice; duplicity; wile; deceit; treachery.
Guilt,v. t., The criminality and consequent exposure to punishment resulting from willful disobedience of law, or from morally wrong action; the state of one who has broken a moral or political law; crime; criminality; offense against right. 
Guise,n., Customary way of speaking or acting; custom; fashion; manner; behavior; mien; mode; practice; -- often used formerly in such phrases as: at his own guise; that is, in his own fashion, to suit himself. 
GulAe,pl. , of Gula
Gulas,pl. , of Gula
Gular,a., Pertaining to the gula or throat; as, gular plates. See Illust. of Bird, and Bowfin. 
Gulch,n., Act of gulching or gulping.
Gules,n., The tincture red, indicated in seals and engraved figures of escutcheons by parallel vertical lines. Hence, used poetically for a red color or that which is red. 
Gulfy,a., Full of whirlpools or gulfs.
Gully,n., A large knife.
Gulph,n., See Gulf.
Gulty,a., Guilty.
Gumbo,n., A soup thickened with the mucilaginous pods of the okra; okra soup.
Gumma,n., A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin. 
Gummy,a., Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containing gum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum.
Gunny,, Alt. of Gunny cloth
Gurge,n., A whirlpool.
Gurmy,n., A level; a working.
Gurry,n., An alvine evacuation; also, refuse matter. 
Gurts,n. pl., Groatts.
Gusto,n., Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy.
Gusty,a., Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy; stormy; tempestuous. 
Gutta,n., A drop.
Gutty,a., Charged or sprinkled with drops.
Guyed,imp. & p. p., of Guy
Guyle,v. t., To guile.
Gyall,n., See Gayal.
Gybed,imp. & p. p., of Gybe
Gynno,v. i., To begin. See Gin.
Gypse,n., See Gypsum.
Gypsy,n., One of a vagabond race, whose tribes, coming originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th centry, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc., living by theft, fortune telling, horsejockeying, tinkering, etc. Cf. Bohemian, Romany. 
Gyral,a., Moving in a circular path or way; whirling; gyratory.
Gyron,n., A subordinary of triangular form having one of its angles at the fess point and the opposite aide at the edge of the escutcheon. When there is only one gyron on the shield it is bounded by two lines drawn from the fess point, one horizontally to the dexter side, and one to the dexter chief corner. 
Gyrus,n., A convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyri of the brain; the gyri of brain coral. See Brain. 
Habit,n., The usual condition or state of a person or thing, either natural or acquired, regarded as something had, possessed, and firmly retained; as, a religious habit; his habit is morose; elms have a spreading habit; esp., physical temperament or constitution; as, a full habit of body. 
Hable,a., See Habile.
Hades,n., The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abode of the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto
Hadji,n., A Mohammedan pilgrim to Mecca; -- used among Orientals as a respectful salutation or a title of honor.
Haily,a., Of hail.
Hairy,a., Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute.
Hakim,n., A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan. 
Haled,imp. & p. p., of Hale
Halma,n., The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most important of the exercises of the Pentathlon. 
Halos,pl. , of Halo
Halse,v. t., To embrace about the neck; to salute; to greet.
Halve,n., A half.
Halwe,n., A saint.
Hamel,v. t., Same as Hamele.
Hanap,n., A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions. 
Hance,v. t., To raise; to elevate.
Hanch,, See Hanse.
Handy,superl., Performed by the hand.
Hanse,n., That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost.
Han't,, A contraction of have not, or has not, used in illiterate speech. In the United States the commoner spelling is hain't. 
Haply,adv., By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be. 
Happy,superl., Favored by hap, luck, or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen. 
Hards,n. pl., The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow.
Hardy,a., Bold; brave; stout; daring; resolu?e; intrepid.
Harem,n., The apartments or portion of the house allotted to females in Mohammedan families.
Harle,n., The red-breasted merganser.
Harns,n. pl., The brains.
Harpa,n., A genus of marine univalve shells; the harp shells; -- so called from the form of the shells, and their ornamental ribs. 
Harpy,n., A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the face of a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the face pale with hunger. Some writers mention two, others three. 
Harre,n., A hinge.
Harry,v. t., To strip; to lay waste; as, the Northmen came several times and harried the land. 
Harsh,a., Rough; disagreeable; grating
Harts,, Melilot or sweet clover. See Melilot.
Haste,n., Celerity of motion; speed; swiftness; dispatch; expedition; -- applied only to voluntary beings, as men and other animals. 
Hasty,n., Involving haste; done, made, etc., in haste; as, a hasty sketch. 
Hatch,v. t., To cross with lines in a peculiar manner in drawing and engraving. See Hatching.
Hated,imp. & p. p., of Hate
Hatel,a., Hateful; detestable.
Hater,n., One who hates.
Hatte,, pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote. 
Haugh,n., A low-lying meadow by the side of a river.
Haulm,n., The denuded stems or stalks of such crops as buckwheat and the cereal grains, beans, etc.; straw. 
Hauls,n., See Hals.
Hault,a., Lofty; haughty.
Haunt,v. t., To frequent; to resort to frequently; to visit pertinaciously or intrusively; to intrude upon.
Haven,n., A bay, recess, or inlet of the sea, or the mouth of a river, which affords anchorage and shelter for shipping; a harbor; a port. 
Haver,n., A possessor; a holder.
Havoc,n., Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste.
Hawed,imp. & p. p., of Haw
Hawse,n., A hawse hole.
Hazed,imp. & p. p., of Haze
Hazel,n., A shrub or small tree of the genus Corylus, as the C. avellana, bearing a nut containing a kernel of a mild, farinaceous taste; the filbert. The American species are C. Americana, which produces the common hazelnut, and C. rostrata. See Filbert. 
Hazle,v. t., To make dry; to dry.
Heady,a., Willful; rash; precipitate; hurried on by will or passion; ungovernable.
Heald,n., A heddle.
Heapy,a., Lying in heaps.
Heard,imp. & p. p., of Hear
Heart,n., A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood. 
Heath,n., A low shrub (Erica, / Calluna, vulgaris
Hoven,, of Heave
Heave,v. t., To cause to move upward or onward by a lifting effort; to lift; to raise; to hoist; -- often with up; as, the wave heaved the boat on land. 
Heavy,a., Having the heaves.
Heben,n., Ebony.
Hedge,n., A thicket of bushes, usually thorn bushes; especially, such a thicket planted as a fence between any two portions of land; and also any sort of shrubbery, as evergreens, planted in a line or as a fence; particularly, such a thicket planted round a field to fence it, or in rows to separate the parts of a garden. 
Heedy,a., Heedful.
Hefty,a., Moderately heavy.
Hegge,n., A hedge.
Helix,n., A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to a given plane. The common helix is the curve formed by the thread of the ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all the convolutions of which are in the plane. 
Hello,interj. & n., See Halloo.
Helly,a., Hellish.
Helot,n., A slave in ancient Sparta; a Spartan serf; hence, a slave or serf. 
Helve,n., The handle of an ax, hatchet, or adze. 
Hemal,a., Relating to the blood or blood vessels; pertaining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the heart and great blood vessels; -- opposed to neural. 
Hemin,n., A substance, in the form of reddish brown, microscopic, prismatic crystals, formed from dried blood by the action of strong acetic acid and common salt; -- called also Teichmann's crystals. Chemically, it is a hydrochloride of hematin. 
Hempy,a., Like hemp.
Hence,adv., From this place; away.
Hende,a., Skillful; dexterous; clever.
Hendy,a., See Hende.
Henen,adv., Hence.
Henna,n., A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba
Henry,n., The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit when the electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, while the inducing current varies at the rate of one ampere a second. 
Hente,imp., of Hent
Hepar,n., Liver of sulphur; a substance of a liver-brown color, sometimes used in medicine. It is formed by fusing sulphur with carbonates of the alkalies (esp. potassium
Hepta,, A combining form from Gr.   epta`, seven. 
Herby,a., Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs or herbage. 
women,pl. , of Herdswoman
Heren,a., Made of hair.
Herie,v. t., To praise; to worship.
Herma,n., See Hermes, 2. 
Herne,n., A corner.
Heron,n., Any wading bird of the genus Ardea and allied genera, of the family Ardeidae. The herons have a long, sharp bill, and long legs and toes, with the claw of the middle toe toothed. The common European heron (Ardea cinerea
Herse,n., A kind of gate or portcullis, having iron bars, like a harrow, studded with iron spikes. It is hung above gateways so that it may be quickly lowered, to impede the advance of an enemy. 
Herte,n., A heart.
Heugh,n., A crag; a cliff; a glen with overhanging sides.
Heved,n., The head.
Hewed,imp., of Hew
Hewer,n., One who hews.
Hexad,n., An atom whose valence is six, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, six monad atoms or radicals; as, sulphur is a hexad in sulphuric acid. Also used as an adjective. 
Hexyl,n., A compound radical, C6H13, regarded as the essential residue of hexane, and a related series of compounds. 
Heygh,a., High.
Heyne,n., A wretch; a rascal.
Hided,imp. & p. p., of Hide
Hider,n., One who hides or conceals.
Hying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hie
Hiems,n., Winter.
Hight,n., A variant of Height.
Hoten,, of Hight
Hight,v. t. & i., To be called or named.
Higre,n., See Eagre.
Hijra,n., See Hegira.
Hilal,a., Of or pertaining to a hilum.
Hilar,a., Belonging to the hilum.
Hilly,a., Abounding with hills; uneven in surface; as, a hilly country. 
Hilum,n., The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the point of attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- called also hile.
Hilus,n., Same as Hilum, 2. 
Hindi,n., The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustani language which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos. In employs the Devanagari character, in which Sanskrit is written. 
Hindu,n., A native inhabitant of Hindostan. As an ethnical term it is confined to the Dravidian and Aryan races; as a religious name it is restricted to followers of the Veda.
Hinge,n., The hook with its eye, or the joint, on which a door, gate, lid, etc., turns or swings; a flexible piece, as a strip of leather, which serves as a joint to turn on. 
Hinny,v. i., To neigh; to whinny.
Hipps,n., See Hyp, n. 
Hippa,n., Alt. of Hippe
Hippe,n., A genus of marine decapod crustaceans, which burrow rapidly in the sand by pushing themselves backward; -- called also bait bug. See Illust. under Anomura. 
Hired,imp. & p. p., of Hire
Hirer,n., One who hires.
Hires,pron., Alt. of Hirs
Hitch,v. t., To become entangled or caught; to be linked or yoked; to unite; to cling.
Hithe,n., A port or small haven; -- used in composition; as, Lambhithe, now Lambeth. 
Hived,imp. & p. p., of Hive
Hiver,n., One who collects bees into a hive.
Hives,n., The croup.
Hoard,n., See Hoarding, 2. 
Hoary,a., White or whitish.
Hobby,n., A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo
Hobit,n., A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer. 
Hoboy,n., A hautboy or oboe.
Hocco,n., The crested curassow; -- called also royal pheasant. See Curassow.
Hough,n., The joint in the hind limb of quadrupeds between the leg and shank, or tibia and tarsus, and corresponding to the ankle in man. 
Hocus,v. t., To deceive or cheat.
Hoddy,n., See Dun crow, under Dun, a. 
Hoful,a., Careful; wary.
Hoise,v. t., To hoist.
Hoist,v. t., To raise; to lift; to elevate; esp., to raise or lift to a desired elevation, by means of tackle, as a sail, a flag, a heavy package or weight. 
Hoker,n., Scorn; derision; abusive talk.
Holla,interj., Hollo.
Hollo,interj. & n., Ho there; stop; attend; hence, a loud cry or a call to attract attention; a halloo. 
Holly,adv., Wholly.
Holwe,a., Hollow.
Homer,n., A carrier pigeon remarkable for its ability to return home from a distance.
Honed,imp. & p. p., of Hone
Honey,n., A sweet viscid fluid, esp. that collected by bees from flowers of plants, and deposited in the cells of the honeycomb. 
Honor,n., Esteem due or paid to worth; high estimation; respect; consideration; reverence; veneration; manifestation of respect or reverence.
Hoody,n., The hooded crow; also, in Scotland, the hooded gull. 
Hoofs,pl. , of Hoof
Hooky,a., Full of hooks; pertaining to hooks.
Hoove,n., A disease in cattle consisting in inflammation of the stomach by gas, ordinarily caused by eating too much green food; tympany; bloating. 
Hoven,a., Affected with hoove; as, hooven, or hoven, cattle. 
Hoped,imp. & p. p., of Hope
Hoper,n., One who hopes.
Hoppo,n., A collector of customs, as at Canton; an overseer of commerce. 
Horal,a., Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours. 
Horde,n., A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude. 
Horny,superl., Having horns or hornlike projections.
Horse,n., A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic horse (E. caballus
Horsy,a., Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions. 
Hosen,pl. , of Hose
Hatte,pres. & imp., of Hote
Hoten,, of Hote
Hotel,n., A house for entertaining strangers or travelers; an inn or public house, of the better class. 
Hoten,, p. p. of Hote.
Hotly,a., In a hot or fiery manner; ardently; vehemently; violently; hastily; as, a hotly pursued. 
Hough,n., Same as Hock, a joint. 
Hoult,n., A piece of woodland; a small wood. [Obs.] See Holt.
Hound,n., A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, drooping ears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound, bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleet hunting dogs, as the greyhound, boarhound, etc. 
Houri,n., A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans.
Hours,n. pl., Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day. 
House,n., A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for animals of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the habitation of man; a dwelling place, a mansion. 
Houss,n., A saddlecloth; a housing.
Houve,n., A head covering of various kinds; a hood; a coif; a cap.
Hovel,n., An open shed for sheltering cattle, or protecting produce, etc., from the weather. 
Hoven,, p. p. of Heave.
Hover,n., A cover; a shelter; a protection.
Howdy,n., A midwife.
Howel,n., A tool used by coopers for smoothing and chamfering rheir work, especially the inside of casks. 
Howso,adv., Howsoever.
Howve,n., A hood. See Houve.
Hubby,a., Full of hubs or protuberances; as, a road that has been frozen while muddy is hubby. 
Hudge,n., An iron bucket for hoisting coal or ore.
Huffy,a., Puffed up; as, huffy bread. 
Hulan,n., See Uhlan.
Hulch,n., A hunch.
Hulky,a., Bulky; unwiedly.
Hullo,interj., See Hollo.
Hully,a., Having or containing hulls.
Human,a., Belonging to man or mankind; having the qualities or attributes of a man; of or pertaining to man or to the race of man; as, a human voice; human shape; human nature; human sacrifices. 
Humic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, vegetable mold; as, humic acid. See Humin. 
Humid,a., Containing sensible moisture; damp; moist; as, a humidair or atmosphere; somewhat wet or watery; as, humid earth; consisting of water or vapor. 
Humin,n., A bitter, brownish yellow, amorphous substance, extracted from vegetable mold, and also produced by the action of acids on certain sugars and carbohydrates; -- called also humic acid, ulmin, gein, ulmic or geic acid, etc. 
Humor,n., Moisture, especially, the moisture or fluid of animal bodies, as the chyle, lymph, etc.; as, the humors of the eye, etc. 
Humph,interj., An exclamation denoting surprise, or contempt, doubt, etc. 
Humpy,a., Full of humps or bunches; covered with protuberances; humped.
Humus,n., That portion of the soil formed by the decomposition of animal or vegetable matter. It is a valuable constituent of soils.
Hunch,n., A hump; a protuberance.
Hunks,n., A covetous, sordid man; a miser; a niggard. 
Hunte,n., A hunter.
Hurds,n., The coarse part of flax or hemp; hards.
Hurly,n., Noise; confusion; uproar.
Hurra,interj., A word used as a shout of joy, triumph, applause, encouragement, or welcome. 
Hurry,v. t., To hasten; to impel to greater speed; to urge on.
Hurst,n., A wood or grove; -- a word used in the composition of many names, as in Hazlehurst. 
Husky,n., Abounding with husks; consisting of husks.
Hussy,n., A housewife or housekeeper.
Hutch,v. t. & i., To place in huts; to live in huts; as, to hut troops in winter quarters. 
Huzza,interj., A word used as a shout of joy, exultation, approbation, or encouragement. 
Hyads,n.pl., A cluster of five stars in the face of the constellation Taurus, supposed by the ancients to indicate the coming of rainy weather when they rose with the sun. 
Hydra,n., A serpent or monster in the lake or marsh of Lerna, in the Peloponnesus, represented as having many heads, one of which, when cut off, was immediately succeeded by two others, unless the wound was cauterized. It was slain by Hercules. Hence, a terrible monster. 
Hyena,n., Any carnivorous mammal of the family Hyaenidae, of which three living species are known. They are large and strong, but cowardly. They feed chiefly on carrion, and are nocturnal in their habits. 
Hylic,a., Of or pertaining to matter; material; corporeal; as, hylic influences. 
Hymar,n., The wild ass of Persia.
Hymen,n., A fold of muscous membrane often found at the orifice of the vagina; the vaginal membrane.
Hyoid,a., Having the form of an arch, or of the Greek letter upsilon [/]. 
Hyrax,n., Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species are known. They constitute the order Hyracoidea. The best known species are the daman (H. Syriacus
Hyrse,n., Millet.
Hyrst,n., A wood. See Hurst.
Hyson,n., A fragrant kind of green tea.
Hythe,n., A small haven. See Hithe.
Iambi,pl. , of Iambus
Icing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ice
Ichor,n., An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins of the gods.
Icily,adv., In an icy manner; coldly.
Icing,n., A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or white of egg; frosting. 
Ickle,n., An icicle.
Ictic,a., Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt. 
Ictus,n., The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf. Arsis.
Ideas,pl. , of Idea
Ideal,a., Existing in idea or thought; conceptional; intellectual; mental; as, ideal knowledge. 
Ideat,n., Alt. of Ideate
Idiom,n., The syntactical or structural form peculiar to any language; the genius or cast of a language.
Idiot,n., A man in private station, as distinguished from one holding a public office. 
Idled,imp. & p. p., of Idle
Idler,n., One who idles; one who spends his time in inaction; a lazy person; a sluggard.
Ifere,a., Together.
Igloo,n., An Eskimo snow house.
Ignes,pl. , of Ignis fatuus
Ignis,, A phosphorescent light that appears, in the night, over marshy ground, supposed to be occasioned by the decomposition of animal or vegetable substances, or by some inflammable gas; -- popularly called also Will-with-the-wisp, or Will-o'-the-wisp, and Jack-with-a-lantern, or Jack-o'-lantern. 
Ihram,n., The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca.
Ileac,a., Pertaining to the ileum.
Ileum,n., The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine. 
Ileus,n., A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, / iliac, passion. 
Iliac,a., Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy. 
Ilial,a., Pertaining to the ilium; iliac.
Ilium,n., The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate. 
Ilkon,pron., Alt. of Ilkoon
Image,n., An imitation, representation, or similitude of any person, thing, or act, sculptured, drawn, painted, or otherwise made perceptible to the sight; a visible presentation; a copy; a likeness; an effigy; a picture; a semblance. 
Imago,n., An image.
Imaum,n., Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque. 
Imban,v. t., To put under a ban.
Imbar,v. t., To bar in; to secure.
Imbay,v. t., See Embay.
Imbed,v. t., To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc. 
Imbow,v. t., To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow.
Imbox,v. t., To inclose in a box.
Imbue,v. t., To tinge deeply; to dye; to cause to absorb; as, clothes thoroughly imbued with black. 
Imide,n., A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia, in which two atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by divalent basic or acid radicals; -- frequently used as a combining form; as, succinimide. 
Imido,a., Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH, which is called the imido group. 
Immew,v. t., See Emmew.
Immit,v. t., To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit.
Immix,v. t., To mix; to mingle.
Imped,imp. & p. p., of Imp
Impel,v. t., To drive or urge forward or on; to press on; to incite to action or motion in any way.
Impen,v. t., To shut up or inclose, as in a pen. 
Imply,v. t., To infold or involve; to wrap up.
Inane,a., Without contents; empty; void of sense or intelligence; purposeless; pointless; characterless; useless.
Inapt,a., Unapt; not apt; unsuitable; inept.
Incan,a., Of or pertaining to the Incas.
Incle,n., Same as Inkle.
Incog,adv., Incognito.
Incur,v. t., To meet or fall in with, as something inconvenient, harmful, or onerous; to put one's self in the way of; to expose one's self to; to become liable or subject to; to bring down upon one's self; to encounter; to contract; as, to incur debt, danger, displeasure/ penalty, responsibility, etc. 
Incus,n., An anvil.
Indew,v. t., To indue.
Index,n., That which points out; that which shows, indicates, manifests, or discloses. 
India,n., A country in Southern Asia; the two peninsulas of Hither and Farther India; in a restricted sense, Hither India, or Hindostan. 
Indin,n., A dark red crystalline substance, isomeric with and resembling indigo blue, and obtained from isatide and dioxindol. 
Indol,n., A white, crystalline substance, C8H7N, obtained from blue indigo, and almost all indigo derivatives, by a process of reduction. It is also formed from albuminous matter, together with skatol, by putrefaction, and by fusion with caustic potash, and is present in human excrement, as well as in the intestinal canal of some herbivora. 
Indow,v. t., See Endow.
Indri,n., Any lemurine animal of the genus Indris.
Indue,v. t., To put on, as clothes; to draw on. 
Inept,a., Not apt or fit; unfit; unsuitable; improper; unbecoming.
Inerm,a., Alt. of Inermous
Inert,a., Destitute of the power of moving itself, or of active resistance to motion; as, matter is inert. 
Ineye,v. t., To ingraft, as a tree or plant, by the insertion of a bud or eye; to inoculate. 
Infer,v. t., To bring on; to induce; to occasion.
Infix,v. t., To set; to fasten or fix by piercing or thrusting in; as, to infix a sting, spear, or dart. 
Infra,adv., Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix.
Ingle,n., Flame; blaze; a fire; a fireplace.
Ingot,n., That in which metal is cast; a mold.
Inial,a., Pertaining to the inion.
Inion,n., The external occipital protuberance of the skull.
Inked,imp. & p. p., of Ink
Inker,n., One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pad or roller which inks the type. 
Inkle,n., A kind of tape or braid.
Inlaw,v. t., To clear of outlawry or attainder; to place under the protection of the law.
Inlay,v. t., To lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry, choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to form an ornamental surface; to diversify or adorn with insertions. 
Inlet,n., A passage by which an inclosed place may be entered; a place of ingress; entrance.
Inmew,v. t., To inclose, as in a mew or cage. 
Inned,imp. & p. p., of Inn
Inner,a., Further in; interior; internal; not outward; as, an spirit or its phenomena. 
Inset,v. t., To infix.
Insue,v. i., See Ensue, v. i. 
Inter,v. t., To deposit and cover in the earth; to bury; to inhume; as, to inter a dead body. 
Inure,v. t., To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to habituate; to practice habitually.
Inurn,v. t., To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; to intomb. 
Inust,a., Burnt in.
Inwit,n., Inward sense; mind; understanding; conscience.
Iodal,n., An oily liquid, Cl3.CHO, analogous to chloral and bromal. 
Iodic,a., to, or containing, iodine; specif., denoting those compounds in which it has a relatively high valence; as, iodic acid. 
Ionic,a., Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians.
Ioqua,, The shell of a large Dentalium (D. pretiosum
Iowas,n. pl., A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region now included in the State of Iowa.
Irade,n., A decree of the Sultan.
Irate,a., Angry; incensed; enraged.
Irian,a., Of or pertaining to the iris.
Irish,a., Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced in Ireland.
Irony,a., Made or consisting of iron; partaking of iron; iron; as, irony chains; irony particles. 
Irous,a., Irascible; passionate.
Isiac,a., Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries. 
Islam,n., The religion of the Mohammedans; Mohammedanism; Islamism. Their formula of faith is: There is no God but Allah, and Mohammed is his prophet. 
Islet,n., A little island.
Issue,n., The act of passing or flowing out; a moving out from any inclosed place; egress; as, the issue of water from a pipe, of blood from a wound, of air from a bellows, of people from a house. 
Istle,n., Same as Ixtle.
Itala,n., An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic version
Itchy,a., Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation. 
Iulus,n., A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round, consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See Chilognatha. 
Ivied,a., Overgrown with ivy.
Ivory,n., The hard, white, opaque, fine-grained substance constituting the tusks of the elephant. It is a variety of dentine, characterized by the minuteness and close arrangement of the tubes, as also by their double flexure. It is used in manufacturing articles of ornament or utility. 
Ivies,pl. , of Ivy
Ixtle,n., Alt. of Ixtli
Ixtli,n., A Mexican name for a variety of Agave rigida, which furnishes a strong coarse fiber; also, the fiber itself, which is called also pita, and Tampico fiber. 
Izard,n., A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees.
Izedi,n., One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the Devil.
Jabot,n., Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the shirt. 
Jacob,n., A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews
Jaded,imp. & p. p., of Jade
Jager,n., A sharpshooter. See Yager.
Jaggy,a., Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth. 
Jagua,, A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia
Jaina,n., One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism. 
Jakes,n., A privy.
Jakie,n., A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa
Jalap,n., The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium purga
Jantu,n., A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water to irrigate land. 
Janty,a., See Jaunty.
Janus,n., A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite directions. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the covered passage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Temple of Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace. 
Japan,n., Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the varnish or lacquer used in japanning. 
Japer,n., A jester; a buffoon.
Jards,n., A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock. 
Jarvy,n., The driver of a hackney coach.
Jasey,n., A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or resembling, Jersey yarn. 
Jaunt,v. i., To ramble here and there; to stroll; to make an excursion.
Javel,n., A vagabond.
Jawed,imp. & p. p., of Jaw
Jayet,n., See Jet.
Jazel,n., A gem of an azure color.
Jears,n. pl., See 1st Jeer (b
Jeers,n. pl., See 1st Jeer (b
Jelly,n., Anything brought to a gelatinous condition; a viscous, translucent substance in a condition between liquid and solid; a stiffened solution of gelatin, gum, or the like. 
Jemmy,a., Spruce.
Jenny,n., A familiar or pet form of the proper name Jane.
Jerid,n., Same as Jereed.
Jerky,a., Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style. 
Jesse,n., Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in decorative art 
Jesus,n., The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction from Christ, his official appellation. 
Jetty,a., Made of jet, or like jet in color. 
Jewel,n., An ornament of dress usually made of a precious metal, and having enamel or precious stones as a part of its design. 
Jewry,n., Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter. 
Jibed,imp. & p. p., of Jibe
Jiffy,n., A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy. 
Jimmy,n., A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors.
Jingo,n., A word used as a jocular oath.
Jinny,, An inclined road in a coal mine, on which loaded cars descend by gravity, drawing up empty ones. 
Jippo,n., A waistcoat or kind of stays for women.
Joint,n., The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united; the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of timber; a joint in a pipe. 
Joist,n., A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist, bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. of Double-framed floor, under Double, a. 
Joked,imp. & p. p., of Joke
Joker,n., One who makes jokes or jests.
Jolif,a., Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly.
Jolly,superl., Full of life and mirth; jovial; joyous; merry; mirthful.
Jolty,a., That jolts; as, a jolty coach. 
Jonah,n., The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is unpropitious. 
Joram,n., See Jorum.
Jorum,n., A large drinking vessel; also, its contents. 
Jossa,interj., A command to a horse, probably meaning   stand still.   
Jougs,n., An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke. 
Joule,n., A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G. S. system of units (ergs
Joust,v. i., To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the lists; to tilt. 
Joyed,imp. & p. p., of Joy
Jubae,pl. , of Juba
Judas,n., The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person; one who betrays under the semblance of friendship.
Judge,v. i., A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose. 
Jugal,a., Relating to a yoke, or to marriage. 
Juger,n., A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240 feet in length by 120 in breadth. 
Juggs,n. pl., See Jougs.
Jugum,n., One of the ridges commonly found on the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Juice,n., The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance; the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid part which separates from meat in cooking. 
Juicy,superl., A bounding with juice; succulent.
Juise,n., Judgment; justice; sentence.
Julep,n., A refreshing drink flavored with aromatic herbs
Julus,n., A catkin or ament. See Ament.
Junco,n., Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird. 
Junos,pl. , of June
Junta,n., A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., the grand council of state in Spain. 
Junto,n., A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government or politics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; a cabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians. 
Jupon,n., Alt. of Juppon
Jural,a., Pertaining to natural or positive right.
Jurat,n., A person under oath; specifically, an officer of the nature of an alderman, in certain municipal corporations in England. 
Jurel,n., A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx chrysos
Juror,n., A member of a jury; a juryman.
Jussi,n., A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made. 
Jutes,n. pl., Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of which settled in Kent, England, in the 5th century. 
Jutty,n., A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty. 
Juvia,n., A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetia excelsa
Kaama,n., The hartbeest.
Kabob,n. & v. t., See Cabob, n. & v. t. 
Kafal,n., The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron, which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood. 
Kafir,n., One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa. They inhabit the country north of Cape Colony, the name being now specifically applied to the tribes living between Cape Colony and Natal; but the Zulus of Natal are true Kaffirs. 
Kahau,n., A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis
Kalan,n., The sea otter.
Kalif,n., See Caliph.
Kalki,n., The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar.
Kalpa,n., One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated. 
Kapia,n., The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.
Karma,n., One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future existence. (Theos.
Karob,n., The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by goldsmiths.
Kauri,n., A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, / Dammara, australis
Kayak,n., A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other Arctic tribes. 
Kayko,n., The dog salmon.
Kecky,a., Resembling a kecksy.
Kedge,n., To move (a vessel
Keech,n., A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher.
Keels,n. pl., Ninepins. See Kayles.
Keesh,n., See Kish.
Keeve,n., A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub.
Kelpy,n., An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are to be drowned. 
Kempt,, of Kemb
Kempe,a., Rough; shaggy.
Kemps,n. pl., The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago Lanceolata
Kempt,, p. p. of Kemb.
Kerse,n., A cress.
Kerve,v. t., To carve.
Kesar,n., See Kaiser.
Ketch,n., An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons burden. 
Ketol,n., One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol. 
Kevel,n., A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.
Kevin,n., The gazelle.
Kever,v. t. &, i. To cover.
Keved,imp. & p. p., of Key
Keyed,a., Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune. 
Khaya,n., A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis
Kiang,n., The dziggetai.
Kibed,a., Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels.
Kidde,imp., of Kythe.
Kiddy,v. t., To deceive; to outwit; to hoax.
Kieve,n., See Keeve, n. 
Kilos,pl. , of Kilo
Kimbo,a., Crooked; arched; bent.
Kimry,n., See Cymry.
Kinic,a., See Quinic.
Kinky,a., Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair. 
Kiosk,n., A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars. 
Kitte,imp., of Kit
Kithe,v. t., See Kythe.
Kitte,imp., of Kit to cut.
Kiver,v. t., To cover.
Klick,n. & v., See Click.
Kloof,n., A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end.
Knack,v. i., To crack; to make a sharp, abrupt noise to chink. 
Knarl,n., A knot in wood. See Gnarl.
Knave,n., A boy; especially, a boy servant. 
Knead,v. t., To work and press into a mass, usually with the hands; esp., to work, as by repeated pressure with the knuckles, into a well mixed mass, as the materials of bread, cake, etc.; as, to knead dough. 
Kneck,n., The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out. 
Kneed,a., Having knees;- used chiefly in composition; as, in-kneed; out-kneed; weak-kneed. 
Knelt,imp. & p. p., of Kneel
Kneel,v. i., To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down.
Knell,n., The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything. 
Knelt,imp. & p. p., of Kneel.
Knife,n., An instrument consisting of a thin blade, usually of steel and having a sharp edge for cutting, fastened to a handle, but of many different forms and names for different uses; as, table knife, drawing knife, putty knife, pallet knife, pocketknife, penknife, chopping knife, etc.. 
Knits,n. pl., Small particles of ore.
Knock,v. i., To drive or be driven against something; to strike against something; to clash; as, one heavy body knocks against another. 
Knoll,n., A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; the top or crown of a hill.
Knosp,n., Same as Knop,2. 
Knout,n., A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in Russia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted with wire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh. 
Known,p. p., of Know
Knowa,n., The state or quality of being knowable.
Known,p. p., of Know.
Knubs,n. pl., Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon.
Knuff,n., A lout; a clown.
Knurl,n., A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a nodule; a boss or projection.
Koala,n., A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus
Kodak,n., A kind of portable camera.
Konze,n., A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini
Koord,n., See Kurd.
Koran,n., The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran. 
Korin,n., The gazelle.
Kotow,n., The prostration made by mandarins and others to their superiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead on the ground. There are degrees in the rite, the highest being expressed by three knockings. 
Kraal,n., A collection of huts within a stockade; a village; sometimes, a single hut. 
Krait,n., A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus
Krang,n., The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.
Kreel,n., See Creel.
Krems,n., A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n. 
Kreng,n., See Krang.
Krone,n., A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of about twenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9. 
Krupp,, A breech-loading steel cannon manufactured at the works of Friedrich Krupp, at Essen in Prussia. Guns of over eight-inch bore are made up of several concentric cylinders; those of a smaller size are forged solid. 
Kudos,n., Glory; fame; renown; praise.
Kufic,a., See Cufic.
Kulan,n., See Koulan.
Kutch,n., The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beaten into thin sheets.
Kydde,, imp. of Kythe, to show. 
Kyley,n., A variety of the boomerang.
Kymry,n., See Cymry.
Kyrie,n., See Kyrie eleison.
Kydde,imp., of Kithe
Kidde,, of Kithe
Kythe,v. t., Alt. of Kithe
Kithe,v. t., To make known; to manifest; to show; to declare.
Kythe,v. t., To come into view; to appear.
Label,n., A tassel.
Labia,n. pl., See Labium.
Labor,n., Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing, irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard, muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture, manufactures, and like; servile toil; exertion; work. 
Labra,pl. , of Labrum
Labri,pl. , of Labrus
Laced,imp. & p. p., of Lace
Lache,n., Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the proper time; delay to assert a claim.
Ladde,obs. imp., of Lead, to guide. 
Laded,imp., of Lade
Laden,p. & a., Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart. 
Ladin,n., A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the Tyrol.
Ladle,v. t., A cuplike spoon, often of large size, with a long handle, used in lading or dipping. 
Lafte,, imp. of Leave.
Lagan,n. & v., See Ligan.
Lager,n., Lager beer.
Lagly,adv., Laggingly.
Laird,n., A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the crown. 
Laism,n., See Lamaism.
Laity,a., The people, as distinguished from the clergy; the body of the people not in orders. 
Lakao,n., Sap green.
Lakin,n., See Ladykin.
Lakke,n. & v., See Lack.
Lamed,imp. & p. p., of Lame
Lamel,n., See Lamella.
Lames,n. pl., Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon the other and form a piece of armor.
Lamia,n., A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a witch. 
Lance,n., A weapon of war, consisting of a long shaft or handle and a steel blade or head; a spear carried by horsemen, and often decorated with a small flag; also, a spear or harpoon used by whalers and fishermen. 
Lanch,v. t., To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch. 
Lanky,a., Somewhat lank.
Lapel,n., That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar. 
Lapis,n., A stone.
Lapps,n. pl., A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia. 
Lapse,n., A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to immaterial things, or to figurative uses. 
Lares,pl. , of Lar
Larch,n., A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle
Lardy,a., Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or consistency of lard. 
Lares,n. pl., See 1st Lar.
Large,superl., Exceeding most other things of like kind in bulk, capacity, quantity, superficial dimensions, or number of constituent units; big; great; capacious; extensive; -- opposed to small; as, a large horse; a large house or room; a large lake or pool; a large jug or spoon; a large vineyard; a large army; a large city. 
Largo,a. & adv., Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to grave, which is also weighty and solemn. 
Larry,n., Same as Lorry, or Lorrie. 
Larum,n., See Alarum, and Alarm. 
Larva,n., Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usually molts several times, and may change its form or color each time. The larvae of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits, but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only in the pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvae are totally unlike the parents in structure and habits, and are called caterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc. 
Larve,n., A larva.
Lasse,a. & adv., Less.
Lasso,n., A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for catching horses, cattle, etc. 
Laste,obs. imp., of Last, to endure. 
Latch,v. t., To smear; to anoint.
Lated,a., Belated; too late.
Later,n., A brick or tile.
Lates,n., A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates Niloticus
Latex,n., A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called latex cells or latex tubes
Laths,pl. , of Lath
Lathe,n., Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo-Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and is confined to the county of Kent. 
Lathy,a., Like a lath; long and slender.
Latin,a., Of or pertaining to Latium, or to the Latins, a people of Latium; Roman; as, the Latin language. 
Laton,n., Alt. of Latoun
Latus,, The line drawn through a focus of a conic section parallel to the directrix and terminated both ways by the curve. It is the parameter of the principal axis. See Focus, and Parameter. 
Laugh,v. i., To show mirth, satisfaction, or derision, by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face, particularly of the mouth, causing a lighting up of the face and eyes, and usually accompanied by the emission of explosive or chuckling sounds from the chest and throat; to indulge in laughter. 
Laund,n., A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade.
Laura,n., A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior.
Laved,imp. & p. p., of Lave
Laver,n., A vessel for washing; a large basin.
Lavic,a., See Lavatic.
Lawer,n., A lawyer.
Lawnd,n., See Laund.
Lawny,a., Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a lawn.
Laxly,adv., In a lax manner.
Layer,n., One who, or that which, lays. 
Lazar,n., A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a leper.
Lazed,imp. & p. p., of Laze
Leach,n., See 3d Leech.
Leady,a., Resembling lead.
Leafy,superl, Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest. 
Leaky,superl., Permitting water or other fluid to leak in or out; as, a leaky roof or cask. 
Leant,, of Lean
Leany,a., Lean.
Leapt,, of Leap
Learn,v. t., To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry, study, or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in the mind; to acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the way; to learn a lesson; to learn dancing; to learn to skate; to learn the violin; to learn the truth about something. 
Lease,v. i., To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean.
Leash,n., A thong of leather, or a long cord, by which a falconer holds his hawk, or a courser his dog. 
Least,a., Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space. 
Leasy,a., Flimsy; vague; deceptive.
Leave,v. i., To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out.
Leavy,a., Leafy.
Leban,n., Alt. of Lebban
Leche,n., See water buck, under 3d Buck. 
Leden,n., Alt. of Ledden
Ledge,n., A shelf on which articles may be laid; also, that which resembles such a shelf in form or use, as a projecting ridge or part, or a molding or edge in joinery. 
Ledgy,a., Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy island. 
Leech,n., See 2d Leach.
Leede,n., A caldron; a copper kettle.
Leeme,v. & n., See Leme.
Leere,n., Tape or braid; an ornament.
Leese,v. t., To lose.
Leful,a., See Leveful.
Legal,a., Created by, permitted by, in conformity with, or relating to, law; as, a legal obligation; a legal standard or test; a legal procedure; a legal claim; a legal trade; anything is legal which the laws do not forbid. 
Leger,n., Anything that lies in a place; that which, or one who, remains in a place. 
Legge,v. t., To lay.
Leggy,a., Having long legs.
Leman,n., A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; -- usually in a bad sense. 
Lemma,n., A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as in mathematics or logic. 
Lemon,n., An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of the genus Citrus, the common fruit known in commerce being that of the species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum
Lemur,n., One of a family (Lemuridae
Lends,n. pl., Loins.
Lento,a. & adv., Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente.
Lepal,n., A sterile transformed stamen.
Lepas,n., Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle. 
Leper,n., A person affected with leprosy.
Lepid,a., Pleasant; jocose.
Lepra,n., Leprosy.
Lepre,n., Leprosy.
Lepry,n., Leprosy.
Lered,v. t., Learned.
Lerot,n., A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela
Letch,v. & n., See Leach.
Leten,, p. p. of Lete.
Lethe,n., Death.
Lethy,a., Lethean.
Lette,v. t., To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder. 
Letts,n. pl., An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and Old Prussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia. 
Leuke,n., Alt. of Leukeness
Levee,n., The act of rising.
Level,n., A line or surface to which, at every point, a vertical or plumb line is perpendicular; a line or surface which is everywhere parallel to the surface of still water; -- this is the true level, and is a curve or surface in which all points are equally distant from the center of the earth, or rather would be so if the earth were an exact sphere. 
Leven,n., Lightning.
Lever,a., More agreeable; more pleasing.
Levet,n., A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille.
Levin,n., Lightning.
Levir,n., A husband's brother; -- used in reference to levirate marriages.
Lewis,n., Alt. of Lewisson
Leges,pl. , of Lex
Liage,n., Union by league; alliance.
Liane,n., Alt. of Liana
Liana,n., A luxuriant woody plant, climbing high trees and having ropelike stems. The grapevine often has the habit of a liane. Lianes are abundant in the forests of the Amazon region. 
Liard,a., Gray.
Libel,n., A brief writing of any kind, esp. a declaration, bill, certificate, request, supplication, etc. 
Liber,n., The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood. It usually contains a large proportion of woody, fibrous cells, and is, therefore, the part from which the fiber of the plant is obtained, as that of hemp, etc. 
Libra,n., The Balance; the seventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the autumnal equinox in September, marked thus / in almanacs, etc. 
Lichi,n., See Litchi.
Licit,a., Lawful.
Lidge,n., Same as Ledge.
Lying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lie
Liege,a., Sovereign; independent; having authority or right to allegiance; as, a liege lord. 
Lieve,a., Same as Lief.
Lives,pl. , of Life
Lifen,v. t., To enliven.
Ligan,n., Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam. 
Ligge,v. i., To lie or recline.
Light,n., That agent, force, or action in nature by the operation of which upon the organs of sight, objects are rendered visible or luminous. 
Liked,imp. & p. p., of Like
Liken,a., To allege, or think, to be like; to represent as like; to compare; as, to liken life to a pilgrimage. 
Lilac,n., A shrub of the genus Syringa. There are six species, natives of Europe and Asia. Syringa vulgaris, the common lilac, and S. Persica, the Persian lilac, are frequently cultivated for the fragrance and beauty of their purplish or white flowers. In the British colonies various other shrubs have this name. 
Liman,n., The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime.
Limax,n., A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common garden slugs. They have a small rudimentary shell. The breathing pore is on the right side of the neck. Several species are troublesome in gardens. See Slug. 
Limbo,n., Alt. of Limbus
Limed,imp. & p. p., of Lime
Limer,n., A limehound; a limmer.
Limit,v. t., That which terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the bound, border, or edge; the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk, of a town, of a country; the limits of human knowledge or endeavor. 
Limsy,a., Limp; flexible; flimsy.
Linch,n., A ledge; a right-angled projection.
Lined,imp. & p. p., of Line
Linen,n., Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking. 
Liner,n., One who lines, as, a liner of shoes. 
Linga,n., Alt. of Lingam
Lingo,n., Language; speech; dialect.
Linne,n., Flax. See Linen.
Linum,n., A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum usitatissimum
Lipic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly used specifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidation of oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc. 
Lipse,v. i., To lisp.
Lipyl,n., A hypothetical radical of glycerin.
Lisle,n., A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures.
Lisne,n., A cavity or hollow.
Liter,n., Alt. of Litre
Litre,n., A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or 1.76 English pints. 
Lithe,v. i. & i., To listen or listen to; to hearken to.
Litho,, A combining form from Gr. li`qos, stone. 
Lithy,a., Easily bent; pliable.
Litre,n., Same as Liter.
Litui,pl. , of Lituus
Lived,imp. & p. p., of Live
Liver,n., One who, or that which, lives. 
Lives,n., pl. of Life.
Livid,a., Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as flesh by contusion. 
Livor,n., Malignity.
Livre,n., A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20 sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc. 
Llama,n., A South American ruminant (Auchenia llama
Llano,n., An extensive plain with or without vegetation.
Loach,n., Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more barbules around the mouth. They are found in Europe and Asia. The common European species (N. barbatulus
Loamy,a., Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resembling loam.
Loath,a., Hateful; odious; disliked.
Lobar,a., Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobe or lobes. 
Lobby,n., A passage or hall of communication, especially when large enough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from an antechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, an antechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefully preserved. 
Lobed,a., Having lobes; lobate.
Local,a., Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local custom. 
Loche,n., See Loach.
Locky,a., Having locks or tufts.
Locum,, A substitute or deputy; one filling an office for a time.
Locus,n., A place; a locality.
Lodde,n., The capelin.
Lodge,n., A shelter in which one may rest; as: (a
Loess,n., A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowish earth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers. 
Loffe,v. i., To laugh.
Lofty,superl., Lifted high up; having great height; towering; high.
Logan,n., A rocking or balanced stone.
Logge,n. & v., See Lodge.
Logic,n., The science or art of exact reasoning, or of pure and formal thought, or of the laws according to which the processes of pure thinking should be conducted; the science of the formation and application of general notions; the science of generalization, judgment, classification, reasoning, and systematic arrangement; correct reasoning. 
Logos,n., A word; reason; speech.
Locao,n., A green vegetable dye imported from China.
Longe,n., A thrust. See Lunge.
Looed,imp. & p. p., of Loo
Looby,n., An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber. 
Looch,n., See 2d Loch.
Loony,a., See Luny.
Loord,n., A dull, stupid fellow; a drone. 
Loose,superl., Unbound; untied; unsewed; not attached, fastened, fixed, or confined; as, the loose sheets of a book. 
Loped,imp. & p. p., of Lope
Loper,n., One who, or that which, lopes; esp., a horse that lopes. 
Loppy,a., Somewhat lop; inclined to lop.
Loral,n., Of or pertaining to the lores.
Lords,, The European wake-robin (Arum maculatum
Loral,a., Of or pertaining to the lore; -- said of certain feathers of birds, scales of reptiles, etc. 
Lorel,n., A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond.
Loren,obs. strong p. p., of Lose.
Loris,n., Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genus Stenops. They have long, slender limbs and large eyes, and are arboreal in their habits. The slender loris (S. gracilis
Lorry,n., A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting baggage, as at railway stations. 
Losel,n., One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel.
Loser,n., One who loses.
Lotos,n., See Lotus.
Lotto,n., A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls
Lotus,n., A name of several kinds of water lilies; as Nelumbium speciosum, used in religious ceremonies, anciently in Egypt, and to this day in Asia; Nelumbium luteum, the American lotus; and Nymphaea Lotus and N. caerulea, the respectively white-flowered and blue-flowered lotus of modern Egypt, which, with Nelumbium speciosum, are figured on its ancient monuments. 
Lough,n., A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland.
Louis,, Formerly, a gold coin of France nominally worth twenty shillings sterling, but of varying value; -- first struck in 1640. 
Lonis,, Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the art or style of the times of Louis XIV. of France; as, Louis quatorze architecture. 
Loups,n. pl., The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principal totem was the wolf. 
Louri,n., See Lory.
Louse,n., Any one of numerous species of small, wingless, suctorial, parasitic insects belonging to a tribe (Pediculina
Lousy,a., Infested with lice.
Loved,imp. & p. p., of Love
Lovee,n., One who is loved.
Lover,n., One who loves; one who is in love; -- usually limited, in the singular, to a person of the male sex. 
Lowed,imp. & p. p., of Low
Lower,a., Compar. of Low, a. 
Lowgh,, Alt. of Lowh
Lowly,a., Not high; not elevated in place; low.
Lowry,n., An open box car used on railroads. Compare Lorry.
Loyal,a., Faithful to law; upholding the lawful authority; faithful and true to the lawful government; faithful to the prince or sovereign to whom one is subject; unswerving in allegiance.
Lucid,n., Shining; bright; resplendent; as, the lucid orbs of heaven. 
Lucky,superl., Favored by luck; fortunate; meeting with good success or good fortune; -- said of persons; as, a lucky adventurer. 
Lucre,n., Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill sense.
Lumpy,superl., Full of lumps, or small compact masses. 
Lunar,a., Of or pertaining to the moon; as, lunar observations. 
Lunch,n., A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and dinner. 
Lunet,n., A little moon or satellite.
Lunge,n., A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword. 
Lupus,n., A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms.
Lurch,v. i., To swallow or eat greedily; to devour; hence, to swallow up. 
Lured,imp. & p. p., of Lure
Lurid,a., Pale yellow; ghastly pale; wan; gloomy; dismal.
Lurry,n., A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as of sounds. 
Lusty,superl., Exhibiting lust or vigor; stout; strong; vigorous; robust; healthful; able of body.
Lusus,, Sport or freak of nature; a deformed or unnatural production.
Luted,imp. & p. p., of Lute
Luter,n., One who plays on a lute.
Lycea,pl. , of Lyceum
Lyche,a., Like.
Lyden,n., See Leden.
Lying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lie, to tell a falsehood. 
Lyken,v. t., To please; -- chiefly used impersonally.
Lymph,n., A spring of water; hence, water, or a pure, transparent liquid like water. 
Lynch,v. t., To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the forms of law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. See Lynch law. 
Lynde,n., Alt. of Lynden
Lyric,a., Alt. of Lyrical
Lyrid,n., One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards crosses the constellation Lyra.
Lyrie,n., A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum
Lysis,n., The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming on gradually and not marked by abrupt change. 
Lyssa,n., Hydrophobia.
Lythe,n., The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet. 
Lytta,n., A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axis of the tongue in many mammals, as the dog. 
Ma'am,n., Madam; my lady; -- a colloquial contraction of madam often used in direct address, and sometimes as an appellation. 
Maara,, A large, pearly, spiral, marine shell (Turbo margaritaceus
Mabby,n., A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- used in the Barbadoes.
Macao,n., A macaw.
Macaw,n., Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus. About eighteen species are known, all of them American. They are large and have a very long tail, a strong hooked bill, and a naked space around the eyes. The voice is harsh, and the colors are brilliant and strongly contrasted. 
Macco,n., A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century.
Macer,n., A mace bearer; an officer of a court.
Macho,n., The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, / Mexicanus
Macle,n., Chiastolite; -- so called from the tessellated appearance of a cross section. See Chiastolite.
Madam,n., A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of address given to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- much used in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman. The corresponding word in addressing a man is Sir. 
Madge,n., The barn owl.
Madia,n., A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madia sativa
Madid,a., Wet; moist; as, a madid eye. 
Madly,a., In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly.
Magic,a., A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained by a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration, witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc. 
Magma,n., Any crude mixture of mineral or organic matters in the state of a thin paste.
Magna,, The great Charter, so called, obtained by the English barons from King John, A. D. 1215. This name is also given to the charter granted to the people of England in the ninth year of Henry III., and confirmed by Edward I. 
Magot,n., The Barbary ape.
Mahdi,n., Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful. The Sunni, the largest sect of the Mohammedans, believe that he is yet to appear. 
Mahoe,n., A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus, Ochroma, etc.
Mahon,, An annual cruciferous plant with reddish purple or white flowers (Malcolmia maritima
Mahwa,, An East Indian sapotaceous tree (Bassia latifolia, and also B. butyracea
Maian,n., Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadae. 
Maine,n., One of the New England States.
Mains,n., The farm attached to a mansion house.
Maize,n., A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z. Mays
Major,a., Greater in number, quantity, or extent; as, the major part of the assembly; the major part of the revenue; the major part of the territory. 
Maked,p. p., Made.
Maker,n., One who makes, forms, or molds; a manufacturer; specifically, the Creator. 
Malar,a., Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to the malar bone; jugal. 
Malax,v. t., Alt. of Malaxate
Malay,n., One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the Malay Peninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago.
Maleo,n., A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo
Malet,n., A little bag or budget.
Malic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid. 
Malma,n., A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma
Malty,a., Consisting, or like, malt. 
Malum,n., An evil. See Mala.
Mamma,n., Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity.
Mammy,n., A child's name for mamma, mother. 
Manca,n., See Mancus.
Maned,a., Having a mane.
Maneh,n., A Hebrew weight for gold or silver, being one hundred shekels of gold and sixty shekels of silver. 
Manes,n. pl., The benevolent spirits of the dead, especially of dead ancestors, regarded as family deities and protectors. 
Mange,n., The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts. 
Mango,n., The fruit of the mango tree. It is rather larger than an apple, and of an ovoid shape. Some varieties are fleshy and luscious, and others tough and tasting of turpentine. The green fruit is pickled for market. 
Mangy,superl., Infected with the mange; scabby.
Mania,n., Violent derangement of mind; madness; insanity. Cf. Delirium.
Manid,n., Any species of the genus Manis, or family Manidae. 
Manie,n., Mania; insanity.
Manis,n., A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangular scales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on a roof. They inhabit the warmest parts of Asia and Africa, and feed on ants. Called also Scaly anteater. See Pangolin. 
Manks,a., Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man.
Manly,superl., Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish; manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble. 
Manna,n., The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey through the wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food. 
Manor,n., The land belonging to a lord or nobleman, or so much land as a lord or great personage kept in his own hands, for the use and subsistence of his family. 
Manse,n., A dwelling house, generally with land attached. 
Manta,n., See Coleoptera and Sea devil.
Manto,n., See Manteau.
Manul,n., A wild cat (Felis manul
Manus,pl. , of Manus
Maori,n., One of the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand; also, the original language of New Zealand. 
Maple,n., A tree of the genus Acer, including about fifty species. A. saccharinum is the rock maple, or sugar maple, from the sap of which sugar is made, in the United States, in great quantities, by evaporation; the red or swamp maple is A. rubrum; the silver maple, A. dasycarpum, having fruit wooly when young; the striped maple, A. Pennsylvanium, called also moosewood. The common maple of Europe is A. campestre, the sycamore maple is A. Pseudo-platanus, and the Norway maple is A. platanoides. 
Maqui,n., A Chilian shrub (Aristotelia Maqui
Marai,n., A sacred inclosure or temple; -- so called by the islanders of the Pacific Ocean.
March,n., The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days. 
Mardi,n., The last day of Carnival; Shrove Tuesday; -- in some cities a great day of carnival and merrymaking.
Marge,n., Border; margin; edge; verge.
Marie,interj., Marry.
Marly,superl., Consisting or partaking of marl; resembling marl; abounding with marl.
Marry,v. t., To unite in wedlock or matrimony; to perform the ceremony of joining, as a man and a woman, for life; to constitute (a man and a woman
Marsh,n., A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or wholly with water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. 
Maser,n., Same as Mazer.
Mashy,a., Produced by crushing or bruising; resembling, or consisting of, a mash. 
Mason,n., One whose occupation is to build with stone or brick; also, one who prepares stone for building purposes. 
Masse,n., Alt. of Masse shot
Massy,superl., Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk and weight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, a massy shield; a massy rock. 
Masty,a., Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc. 
Match,n., Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire, made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning some time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end in a substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparation of phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. 
Mated,imp. & p. p., of Mate
Mater,n., See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater. 
Matie,n., A fat herring with undeveloped roe.
M/tin,n., A French mastiff.
Matin,n., Morning.
Matte,n., A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternately roasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal from associated iron ores, and called coarse metal, fine metal, etc., according to the grade of fineness. On the exterior it is dark brown or black, but on a fresh surface is yellow or bronzy in color. 
Maule,n., The common mallow.
Maund,n., A hand basket.
Mauve,n., A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac. 
Mavis,n., The European throstle or song thrush (Turdus musicus
Mawks,n., A slattern; a mawk.
Mawky,a., Maggoty.
Maxim,n., An established principle or proposition; a condensed proposition of important practical truth; an axiom of practical wisdom; an adage; a proverb; an aphorism.
Might,imp., of May
Maybe,adv., Perhaps; possibly; peradventure.
Mayor,n., The chief magistrate of a city or borough; the chief officer of a municipal corporation. In some American cities there is a city court of which the major is chief judge.
Mazed,imp. & p. p., of Maze
Mazer,n., A large drinking bowl; -- originally made of maple.
Meach,v. i., To skulk; to cower. See Mich.
Mealy,superl., Having the qualities of meal; resembling meal; soft, dry, and friable; easily reduced to a condition resembling meal; as, a mealy potato. 
Meant,imp. & p. p., of Mean
Mease,n., Five hundred; as, a mease of herrings. 
Meath,n., Alt. of Meathe
Meaty,a., Abounding in meat.
Meawl,v. i., See Mewl, and Miaul. 
Medal,n., A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device, and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or an illustrious person, or to serve as a reward. 
Media,n., pl. of Medium.
Medic,n., A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago. The black medic is the Medicago lupulina; the purple medic, or lucern, is M. sativa. 
Media,pl. , of Medium
Medii,pl. , of Medius
Medle,v. t., To mix; to mingle; to meddle.
Medly,v. t., See Medle.
Medoc,n., A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from the district of Medoc in the department of Gironde. 
Meech,v. i., See Mich.
Meeth,n., Mead. See Meathe.
Meine,v. t., See Menge.
Meiny,n., A family, including servants, etc.; household; retinue; train. 
Melam,n., A white or buff-colored granular powder, C6H9N11, obtained by heating ammonium sulphocyanate. 
Melee,n., A fight in which the combatants are mingled in one confused mass; a hand to hand conflict; an affray.
Melic,, Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful.
Melne,n., A mill.
Meloe,, A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra; the oil beetles. These beetles are sometimes used instead of cantharides for raising blisters. See Oil beetle, under Oil. 
Melon,n., The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that produces the fruit. 
Mends,n., See Amends.
Mente,imp., of Menge
Meint,, of Menge
Menge,v. i., To mix.
Menow,n., A minnow.
Mense,n., Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility.
Merce,v. t., To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce.
Mercy,n., Forbearance to inflict harm under circumstances of provocation, when one has the power to inflict it; compassionate treatment of an offender or adversary; clemency. 
Merge,v. t., To cause to be swallowed up; to immerse; to sink; to absorb.
Merit,n., The quality or state of deserving well or ill; desert.
Merke,a., Murky.
Merle,n., The European blackbird. See Blackbird.
Meros,n., The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph.
Merou,n., See Jack, 8 (c
Merry,superl., Laughingly gay; overflowing with good humor and good spirits; jovial; inclined to laughter or play ; sportive.
Merus,n., See Meros.
Mesad,adv., Same as Mesiad.
Mesal,a., Same as Mesial.
Mesel,n., A leper.
Meshy,a., Formed with meshes; netted.
Mesne,a., Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord who holds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person, in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior to the second grantee, and hence is called the mesne lord. 
Meson,n., The mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similar right and left halves. The line in which it meets the dorsal surface has been called the dorsimeson, and the corresponding ventral edge the ventrimeson. 
Metal,n., An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whose oxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, as contrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids. No sharp line can be drawn between the metals and nonmetals, and certain elements partake of both acid and basic qualities, as chromium, manganese, bismuth, etc. 
Mette,imp., of Mete
Meted,imp. & p. p., of Mete
Meter,n., One who, or that which, metes or measures. See Coal-meter. 
Metre,n., Rhythmical arrangement of syllables or words into verses, stanzas, strophes, etc.; poetical measure, depending on number, quantity, and accent of syllables; rhythm; measure; verse; also, any specific rhythmical arrangements; as, the Horatian meters; a dactylic meter. 
Metic,n., A sojourner; an immigrant; an alien resident in a Grecian city, but not a citizen. 
Metif,n. f., Alt. of Metive
Metis,n. f., Alt. of Metisse
Metre,n., See Meter.
Mette,, imp. of Mete, to dream. 
Meute,n., A cage for hawks; a mew. See 4th Mew, 1. 
Mewed,imp. & p. p., of Mew
Mexal,mexcal., Alt. of Mexical
Neyne,n., Same as Meine.
Mezza,, With a medium fullness of sound.
Mezzo,a., Mean; not extreme.
Mhorr,n., See Mohr.
Miasm,n., Miasma.
Miaul,v. i., To cry as a cat; to mew; to caterwaul.
Miche,v. i., To lie hid; to skulk; to act, or carry one's self, sneakingly. 
Midas,n., A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerous species of marmosets. See Marmoset. 
Middy,n., A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman.
Midge,n., Any one of many small, delicate, long-legged flies of the Chironomus, and allied genera, which do not bite. Their larvae are usually aquatic. 
Midst,n., The interior or central part or place; the middle; -- used chiefly in the objective case after in; as, in the midst of the forest. 
Might,, imp. of May.
Milch,a., Giving milk; -- now applied only to beasts.
Milky,a., Consisting of, or containing, milk. 
Mimic,a., Alt. of Mimical
Minae,pl. , of Mina
Minas,pl. , of Mina
Mince,v. t., To cut into very small pieces; to chop fine; to hash; as, to mince meat. 
Mined,imp. & p. p., of Mine
Miner,n., One who mines; a digger for metals, etc.; one engaged in the business of getting ore, coal, or precious stones, out of the earth; one who digs military mines; as, armies have sappers and miners. 
Minge,v. t., To mingle; to mix.
Minie,, A conical rifle bullet, with a cavity in its base plugged with a piece of iron, which, by the explosion of the charge, is driven farther in, expanding the sides to fit closely the grooves of the barrel. 
Minim,n., Anything very minute; as, the minims of existence; -- applied to animalcula; and the like. 
Minny,n., A minnow.
Minor,a., Inferior in bulk, degree, importance, etc.; less; smaller; of little account; as, minor divisions of a body. 
Minos,n., A king and lawgiver of Crete, fabled to be the son of Jupiter and Europa. After death he was made a judge in the Lower Regions. 
Minow,n., See Minnow.
Minum,n., A small kind of printing type; minion.
Minus,a., Less; requiring to be subtracted; negative; as, a minus quantity. 
Mired,imp. & p. p., of Mire
Mirky,a., Dark; gloomy. See Murky.
Mirth,n., Merriment; gayety accompanied with laughter; jollity.
Mirza,n., The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname of an individual. When appended to the surname, it signifies Prince. 
Misdo,v., To do wrongly.
Miser,n., A wretched person; a person afflicted by any great misfortune.
Misle,v. i., To rain in very fine drops, like a thick mist; to mizzle. 
Milen,n., See Maslin.
Misly,a., Raining in very small drops.
Missa,n., The service or sacrifice of the Mass.
Missy,n., See Misy.
Misty,superl., Accompained with mist; characterized by the presence of mist; obscured by, or overspread with, mist; as, misty weather; misty mountains; a misty atmosphere. 
Miter,n., Alt. of Mitre
Mitre,n., A covering for the head, worn on solemn occasions by church dignitaries. It has been made in many forms, the present form being a lofty cap with two points or peaks. 
Miter,v. t., Alt. of Mitre
Mitre,v. t., To place a miter upon; to adorn with a miter.
Miter,v. i., Alt. of Mitre
Mitre,v. i., To meet and match together, as two pieces of molding, on a line bisecting the angle of junction. 
Mitty,n., The stormy petrel.
Mixed,imp. & p. p., of Mix
Mixen,n., A compost heap; a dunghill.
Mixer,n., One who, or that which, mixes. 
Mizzy,n., A bog or quagmire.
Moate,v. i., To void the excrement, as a bird; to mute. 
Moble,v. t., To wrap the head of in a hood.
Mocha,n., A seaport town of Arabia, on the Red Sea. 
Moche,n., A bale of raw silk.
Modal,a., Of or pertaining to a mode or mood; consisting in mode or form only; relating to form; having the form without the essence or reality.
Model,n., A miniature representation of a thing, with the several parts in due proportion; sometimes, a facsimile of the same size. 
Moder,n., A mother.
Modii,pl. , of Modius
Modus,n., The arrangement of, or mode of expressing, the terms of a contract or conveyance. 
Moeve,v. t. & i., To move.
Mogul,n., A person of the Mongolian race.
Mohur,n., A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silver rupees, or $7.21. 
Moile,n., A kind of high shoe anciently worn.
Moira,n., The deity who assigns to every man his lot.
Moire,n., Originally, a fine textile fabric made of the hair of an Asiatic goat; afterwards, any textile fabric to which a watered appearance is given in the process of calendering. 
Moist,a., Moderately wet; damp; humid; not dry; as, a moist atmosphere or air. 
Molar,a., Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the properties or motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules or atoms. 
Mould,v., Crumbling, soft, friable earth; esp., earth containing the remains or constituents of organic matter, and suited to the growth of plants; soil. 
Moldy,superl., Alt. of Mouldy
Moled,imp. & p. p., of Mole
Molle,a., Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat. 
Molly,n., Same as Mollemoke.
Moult,v. t., To shed or cast the hair, feathers, skin, horns, or the like, as an animal or a bird. 
Molto,adv., Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow. 
Momot,n., See Motmot.
Momus,n., The god of mockery and censure.
Monad,n., An ultimate atom, or simple, unextended point; something ultimate and indivisible. 
Monal,n., Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan pheasant. 
Monas,n., A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are many species, both free and attached. See Illust. under Monad. 
Monde,n., The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty.
Moner,n., One of the Monera.
Money,n., A piece of metal, as gold, silver, copper, etc., coined, or stamped, and issued by the sovereign authority as a medium of exchange in financial transactions between citizens and with government; also, any number of such pieces; coin. 
Monte,n., A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or cards. 
Month,n., One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a period of four weeks is often called a month. 
Mooed,imp. & p. p., of Moo
Moody,superl., Subject to varying moods, especially to states of mind which are unamiable or depressed. 
Moong,n., Same as Mung.
Moony,a., Of or pertaining to the moon.
Moory,a., Of or pertaining to moors; marshy; fenny; boggy; moorish.
Moose,n., A large cervine mammal (Alces machlis, or A. Americanus
Moped,imp. & p. p., of Mope
Mopsy,n., A moppet.
Mopus,n., A mope; a drone.
Moral,a., Relating to duty or obligation; pertaining to those intentions and actions of which right and wrong, virtue and vice, are predicated, or to the rules by which such intentions and actions ought to be directed; relating to the practice, manners, or conduct of men as social beings in relation to each other, as respects right and wrong, so far as they are properly subject to rules. 
Moray,n., A muraena.
Morel,n., An edible fungus (Morchella esculenta
Moria,n., Idiocy; imbecility; fatuity; foolishness.
Moric,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, fustic (see Morin
Moril,n., An edible fungus. Same as 1st Morel.
Morin,n., A yellow crystalline substance of acid properties extracted from fustic (Maclura tinctoria, formerly called Morus tinctoria
Mormo,n., A bugbear; false terror.
Morne,a., Of or pertaining to the morn; morning.
Morse,n., The walrus. See Walrus.
Morus,n., A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit; the mulberry. See Mulberry. 
Morwe,n., See Morrow.
Mosel,n. & v., See Muzzle.
Moses,n., A large flatboat, used in the West Indies for taking freight from shore to ship. 
Mossy,superl., Overgrown with moss; abounding with or edged with moss; as, mossy trees; mossy streams. 
Moste,, imp. of Mote.
Moote,, of Mot
Moste,imp., of Mot
Moted,a., Filled with motes, or fine floating dust; as, the air. 
Motet,n., A composition adapted to sacred words in the elaborate polyphonic church style; an anthem.
Moths,pl. , of Moth
Mothy,a., Infested with moths; moth-eaten.
Motif,n., Motive.
Moton,n., A small plate covering the armpit in armor of the 14th century and later.
Motor,n., One who, or that which, imparts motion; a source of mechanical power. 
Motte,n., A clump of trees in a prairie.
Motto,n., A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic achievment. 
Motty,a., Full of, or consisting of, motes. 
Mould,, Alt. of Mouldy
Moule,v. i., To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold.
Moult,v. & n., See Molt.
Mound,n., A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or other sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with precious stones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe. 
Mount,v., A mass of earth, or earth and rock, rising considerably above the common surface of the surrounding land; a mountain; a high hill; -- used always instead of mountain, when put before a proper name; as, Mount Washington; otherwise, chiefly in poetry. 
Mourn,v. i., To express or to feel grief or sorrow; to grieve; to be sorrowful; to lament; to be in a state of grief or sadness.
Mouse,n., Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridae. The common house mouse (Mus musculus
Mousy,a., Infested with mice; smelling of mice.
Mouth,n., The opening through which an animal receives food; the aperture between the jaws or between the lips; also, the cavity, containing the tongue and teeth, between the lips and the pharynx; the buccal cavity. 
Moved,imp. & p. p., of Move
Mover,n., A person or thing that moves, stirs, or changes place. 
Mowen,, of Mow
Mowed,imp., of Mow
Mower,n., One who, or that which, mows; a mowing machine; as, a lawn mower. 
Moxie,n., energy; pep.
Moyle,n. & v., See Moil, and Moile. 
Mucic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, gums and micilaginous substances; specif., denoting an acid obtained by the oxidation of gums, dulcite, etc., as a white crystalline substance isomeric with saccharic acid. 
Mucid,a., Musty; moldy; slimy; mucous.
Mucin,n., See Mucedin.
Mucky,a., Filthy with muck; miry; as, a mucky road. 
Mucor,n., A genus of minute fungi. The plants consist of slender threads with terminal globular sporangia; mold.
Mucro,n., A minute abrupt point, as of a leaf; any small, sharp point or process, terminating a larger part or organ. 
Mucus,n., A viscid fluid secreted by mucous membranes, which it serves to moisten and protect. It covers the lining membranes of all the cavities which open externally, such as those of the mouth, nose, lungs, intestinal canal, urinary passages, etc. 
Mudar,n., Either one of two asclepiadaceous shrubs (Calotropis gigantea, and C. procera
Muddy,superl., Abounding in mud; besmeared or dashed with mud; as, a muddy road or path; muddy boots. 
Mudir,n., Same as Moodir.
Mufti,n., An official expounder of Mohammedan law.
Muggy,superl., Moist; damp; moldy; as, muggy straw. 
Mugil,n., A genus of fishes including the gray mullets. See Mullet.
Mulch,n., Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground, as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., and to preserve moisture. 
Mulct,n., A fine or penalty, esp. a pecuniary punishment or penalty. 
Muley,n., A stiff, long saw, guided at the ends but not stretched in a gate. 
Mulla,n., Same as Mollah.
Mulse,n., Wine boiled and mingled with honey.
Mumbo,, An object of superstitious homage and fear.
Mummy,n., A dead body embalmed and dried after the manner of the ancient Egyptians; also, a body preserved, by any means, in a dry state, from the process of putrefaction. 
Mumps,n., Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks.
Munch,v. t. & i., To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chews provender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls. 
Munga,n., See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet. 
Mungo,n., A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants of woolen goods.
Muntz,, See under Metal.
Mural,a., Of or pertaining to a wall; being on, or in, a wall; growing on, or against, a wall; as, a mural quadrant. 
Mured,imp. & p. p., of Mure
Murex,n., A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequently spinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rock shells. They abound in tropical seas. 
Murky,superl., Dark; obscure; gloomy.
Murre,n., Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, or Catarractes; a guillemot. 
Murry,n., See Muraena.
Murth,n., Plenty; abundance.
Murza,n., One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one of the second class. 
Mures,pl. , of Mus
Musae,pl. , of Musa
Musal,a., Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry. 
Musar,n., An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerly common in Europe. 
Musca,n., A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly, and numerous allied species. 
Musci,n. pl., An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. See Moss, and Cryptogamia. 
Mused,imp. & p. p., of Muse
Muser,n., One who muses.
Muset,n., A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse.
Mushy,a., Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive; weakly sentimental. 
Music,n., The science and the art of tones, or musical sounds, i. e., sounds of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform and synchronous vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension; the science of harmonical tones which treats of the principles of harmony, or the properties, dependences, and relations of tones to each other; the art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear. 
Musit,n., See Muset.
Musky,a., Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like. 
Mussy,a., Disarranged; rumpled.
Musty,n., Having the rank, pungent, offencive odor and taste which substances of organic origin acquire during warm, moist weather; foul or sour and fetid; moldy; as, musty corn; musty books. 
Mutch,n., The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman.
Mutic,a., Alt. of Muticous
Muzzy,a., Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid.
Myall,, A durable, fragrant, and dark-colored Australian wood, used by the natives for spears. It is obtained from the small tree Acacia homolophylla. 
Myoid,a., Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber. 
Myoma,n., A tumor consisting of muscular tissue.
Myope,n., A person having myopy; a myops.
Myips,n., See Myope.
Myopy,n., Myopia.
Myrrh,n., A gum resin, usually of a yellowish brown or amber color, of an aromatic odor, and a bitter, slightly pungent taste. It is valued for its odor and for its medicinal properties. It exudes from the bark of a shrub of Abyssinia and Arabia, the Balsamodendron Myrrha. The myrrh of the Bible is supposed to have been partly the gum above named, and partly the exudation of species of Cistus, or rockrose. 
Mysis,n., A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and salt water; the opossum shrimps. One species inhabits the Great Lakes of North America, and is largely eaten by the whitefish. The marine species form part of the food of right whales. 
Mythe,n., See Myth.
Nabit,n., Pulverized sugar candy.
Nabob,n., A deputy or viceroy in India; a governor of a province of the ancient Mogul empire.
Nacre,n., A pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, and is most perfect in the mother-of-pearl. [Written also nacker and naker.] See Pearl, and Mother-of-pearl. 
Nadde,, Had not.
Nadir,n., That point of the heavens, or lower hemisphere, directly opposite the zenith; the inferior pole of the horizon; the point of the celestial sphere directly under the place where we stand. 
Naeve,n., A naevus.
Naevi,pl. , of Navus
Navus,n., A spot or mark on the skin of children when born; a birthmark; -- usually applied to vascular tumors, i. e., those consisting mainly of blood vessels, as dilated arteries, veins, or capillaries. 
Naggy,a., Irritable; touchy.
Nagor,n., A West African gazelle (Gazella redunca
Naiad,n., A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled to preside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, or fountain. 
Naive,a., Having native or unaffected simplicity; ingenuous; artless; frank; as, naive manners; a naive person; naive and unsophisticated remarks. 
Naked,a., Having no clothes on; uncovered; nude; bare; as, a naked body; a naked limb; a naked sword. 
Naker,n., Same as Nacre.
Nakoo,n., The gavial.
Named,imp. & p. p., of Name
Namer,n., One who names, or calls by name. 
Nandu,n., Any one of three species of South American ostriches of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. See Rhea.
Nanny,n., A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name. 
Napha,, A perfume distilled from orange flowers.
Nappe,n., Sheet; surface; all that portion of a surface that is continuous in such a way that it is possible to pass from any one point of the portion to any other point of the portion without leaving the surface. Thus, some hyperboloids have one nappe, and some have two. 
Nappy,a., Inclined to sleep; sleepy; as, to feel nappy. 
Napus,n., A kind of turnip. See Navew.
Nares,n. pl., The nostrils or nasal openings, -- the anterior nares being the external or proper nostrils, and the posterior nares, the openings of the nasal cavities into the mouth or pharynx. 
Narre,a., Nearer.
Narwe,a., Narrow.
Nasal,a., Of or pertaining to the nose.
Nassa,n., Any species of marine gastropods, of the genera Nassa, Tritia, and other allied genera of the family Nassidae; a dog whelk. See Illust. under Gastropoda. 
Nasty,superl., Offensively filthy; very dirty, foul, or defiled; disgusting; nauseous. 
Natal,a., Of or pertaining to one's birth; accompying or dating from one's birth; native.
Natch,n., The rump of beef; esp., the lower and back part of the rump. 
Nates,n. pl., The buttocks.
Natka,a., A species of shrike.
Natty,a., Neat; tidy; spruce.
Naval,a., Having to do with shipping; of or pertaining to ships or a navy; consisting of ships; as, naval forces, successes, stores, etc. 
Navel,n., A mark or depression in the middle of the abdomen; the umbilicus. See Umbilicus.
Navew,n., A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. See Brassica. 
Navvy,n., Originally, a laborer on canals for internal navigation; hence, a laborer on other public works, as in building railroads, embankments, etc. 
Nawab,n., A deputy ruler or viceroy in India; also, a title given by courtesy to other persons of high rank in the East. 
Neddy,n., A pet name for a donkey.
Needs,adv., Of necessity; necessarily; indispensably; -- often with must, and equivalent to of need. 
Needy,superl., Distressed by want of the means of living; very por; indigent; necessitous.
Neeld,n., Alt. of Neele
Neele,n., A needle.
Ne'er,adv., a contraction of Never.
Neese,v. i., To sneeze.
Negro,n., A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very dark persons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and are distinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thick protruding lips; also, any black person of unmixed African blood, wherever found. 
Negus,n., A beverage made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice; -- so called, it is said, from its first maker, Colonel Negus. 
Neife,n., A woman born in the state of villeinage; a female serf.
Neigh,v. i., To utter the cry of the horse; to whinny.
Nempt,p. p., Called; named.
Nenia,n., A funeral song; an elegy.
Nerre,adv. & a., Nearer.
Nerve,n., One of the whitish and elastic bundles of fibers, with the accompanying tissues, which transmit nervous impulses between nerve centers and various parts of the animal body. 
Nervy,superl. -, Strong; sinewy.
Netty,a., Like a net, or network; netted. 
Neura,pl. , of Neuron
Neven,v. t., To name; to mention; to utter.
Never,adv., Not ever; not at any time; at no time, whether past, present, or future. 
Nevew,n., Nephew.
Newel,n., A novelty; a new thing.
Newly,adv., Lately; recently.
Newsy,a., Full of news; abounding in information as to current events.
Nexus,n., Connection; tie.
Ngina,n., The gorilla.
Niche,n., A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness of a wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, any similar position, literal or figurative. 
Nidor,n., Scent or savor of meat or food, cooked or cooking. 
Nidus,n., A nest: a repository for the eggs of birds, insects, etc.; a breeding place; esp., the place or substance where parasites or the germs of a disease effect lodgment or are developed. 
Niece,n., A relative, in general; especially, a descendant, whether male or female; a granddaughter or a grandson. 
Nifle,n., A trifle.
Night,n., That part of the natural day when the sun is beneath the horizon, or the time from sunset to sunrise; esp., the time between dusk and dawn, when there is no light of the sun, but only moonlight, starlight, or artificial light. 
Nigua,n., The chigoe.
Nihil,n., Nothing.
Nomen,p. p., of Nim
Nimbi,pl. , of Nimbus
Ninny,n., A fool; a simpleton.
Ninth,a., Following the eight and preceding the tenth; coming after eight others.
Ninut,n., The magpie.
Niobe,n., The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes. Her pride in her children provoked Apollo and Diana, who slew them all. Niobe herself was changed by the gods into stone. 
Niopo,n., A kind of snuff prepared by the natives of Venezuela from the roasted seeds of a leguminous tree (Piptadenia peregrina
Nisan,n., The first month of the jewish ecclesiastical year, formerly answering nearly to the month of April, now to March, of the Christian calendar. See Abib. 
Nisey,n., A simpleton.
Niste,, Wist not; knew not.
Nisus,n., A striving; an effort; a conatus.
Niter,n., Alt. of Nitre
Nitre,n., A white crystalline semitransparent salt; potassium nitrate; saltpeter. See Saltpeter.
Nitid,a., Bright; lustrous; shining.
Nitre,n., See Niter.
Nitry,a., Nitrous.
Nitty,a., Full of nits.
Nival,a., Abounding with snow; snowy.
Nixie,n., See Nix.
Nizam,n., The title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad, in India, since 1719. 
Nobby,a., Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable.
Noble,superl., Possessing eminence, elevation, dignity, etc.; above whatever is low, mean, degrading, or dishonorable; magnanimous; as, a noble nature or action; a noble heart. 
Nobly,adv., Of noble extraction; as, nobly born or descended. 
Nodal,a., Of the nature of, or relating to, a node; as, a nodal point. 
Noddy,n., A simpleton; a fool.
Noght,adv., Not.
Noier,n., An annoyer.
Noils,n. pl., Waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings.
Noint,v. t., To anoint.
Noise,n., Sound of any kind.
Noisy,superl., Making a noise, esp. a loud sound; clamorous; vociferous; turbulent; boisterous; as, the noisy crowd. 
Nolde,, Would not.
Nolle,, Will not prosecute; -- an entry on the record, denoting that a plaintiff discontinues his suit, or the attorney for the public a prosecution; either wholly, or as to some count, or as to some of several defendants. 
Nomad,n., One of a race or tribe that has no fixed location, but wanders from place to place in search of pasture or game. 
Nomen,, p. p. of Nim.
Nomic,a., Customary; ordinary; -- applied to the usual English spelling, in distinction from strictly phonetic methods. 
Nonce,n., The one or single occasion; the present call or purpose; -- chiefly used in the phrase for the nonce.
Nonda,n., The edible plumlike fruit of the Australian tree, Parinarium Nonda. 
Nondo,n., A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actaeifolium
Nones,n. pl., The fifth day of the months January, February, April, June, August, September, November, and December, and the seventh day of March, May, July, and October. The nones were nine days before the ides, reckoning inclusively, according to the Roman method. 
Nonet,n., Alt. of Nonetto
Nonne,n., A nun.
Nonny,n., A silly fellow; a ninny.
Nonyl,n., The hydrocarbon radical, C9H19, derived from nonane and forming many compounds. Used also adjectively; as, nonyl alcohol. 
Noose,n., A running knot, or loop, which binds the closer the more it is drawn. 
Nopal,n., A cactaceous plant (Nopalea cochinellifera
Noria,n., A large water wheel, turned by the action of a stream against its floats, and carrying at its circumference buckets, by which water is raised and discharged into a trough; used in Arabia, China, and elsewhere for irrigating land; a Persian wheel. 
Norie,n., The cormorant.
Norma,n., A norm; a principle or rule; a model; a standard.
Norna,n., One of the three Fates, Past, Present, and Future. Their names were Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld. 
Norse,a., Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the language spoken by its inhabitants. 
North,n., That one of the four cardinal points of the compass, at any place, which lies in the direction of the true meridian, and to the left hand of a person facing the east; the direction opposite to the south. 
Nosed,imp. & p. p., of Nose
Nosel,v. t., To nurse; to lead or teach; to foster; to nuzzle.
Nosle,n., Nozzle.
Notal,a., Of or pertaining to the back; dorsal.
Notch,n., A hollow cut in anything; a nick; an indentation.
Noted,imp. & p. p., of Note
Noter,n., One who takes notice.
Notum,n., The back.
Notus,n., The south wind.
Nouch,n., An ouch; a jewel.
Nould,, Would not.
Noule,n., The top of the head; the head or noll.
Novel,a., Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, out of the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising. 
Novum,n., A game at dice, properly called novem quinque (L., nine five
Noway,adv., Alt. of Noways
Nowch,n., See Nouch.
Nowed,a., Knotted; tied in a knot, as a serpent. 
Nowel,n., Christmas; also, a shout of joy at Christmas for the birth of the Savior. 
Nowes,n. pl., The marriage knot.
Noyau,n., A cordial of brandy, etc., flavored with the kernel of the bitter almond, or of the peach stone, etc. 
Noyer,n., An annoyer.
Noyls,n. pl., See Noils.
Nozle,n., Nozzle.
Nubia,n., A light fabric of wool, worn on the head by women; a cloud. 
Nuch/,pl. , of Nucha
Nucha,n., The back or upper part of the neck; the nape.
Nucin,n., See Juglone.
Nucle,n., Same as Nutlet.
Nudge,v. t., To touch gently, as with the elbow, in order to call attention or convey intimation. 
Nudum,, A bare, naked contract, without any consideration. 
Nugae,n. pl., Trifles; jests.
Numps,n., A dolt; a blockhead.
Nurse,n., One who nourishes; a person who supplies food, tends, or brings up; as: (a
Nutty,a., Abounding in nuts.
Nymph,n., A goddess of the mountains, forests, meadows, or waters. 
Nyula,n., A species of ichneumon (Herpestes nyula
Oaken,a., Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks.
Oaker,n., See Ocher.
Oakum,n., The material obtained by untwisting and picking into loose fiber old hemp ropes; -- used for calking the seams of ships, stopping leaks, etc. 
Oared,imp. & p. p., of Oar
Oases,pl. , of Oasis
Oasis,n., A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert. 
Oaten,a., Consisting of an oat straw or stem; as, an oaten pipe. 
Oaths,pl. , of Oath
Obeah,n., Same as Obi.
Obeli,pl. , of Obelus
Obese,a., Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.
Obole,n., A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple. 
Obolo,n., A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value. 
Oboli,pl. , of Obolus
Obrok,n., A rent.
Occur,v. i., To meet; to clash.
Ocean,n., The whole body of salt water which covers more than three fifths of the surface of the globe; -- called also the sea, or great sea. 
Ocher,n., Alt. of Ochre
Ochre,n., A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite
Ochry,a., See Ochery.
Ocrea,n., See Ochrea.
Octad,n., An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent. 
Octet,n., A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices. 
Octic,a., Of the eighth degree or order.
Octyl,n., A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol. 
Oculi,pl. , of Oculus
Oddly,adv., In an odd manner; unevently.
Odeon,n., A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramatic performances. 
Odeum,n., See Odeon.
Odist,n., A writer of an ode or odes.
Odium,n., Hatred; dislike; as, his conduct brought him into odium, or, brought odium upon him. 
Odize,v. t., To charge with od. See Od.
Odmyl,n., A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil. It has an unpleasant garlic odor.
Odyle,n., See Od. [Archaic].
Oelet,n., An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet. 
Offal,n., The rejected or waste parts of a butchered animal.
Offer,v. t., To present, as an act of worship; to immolate; to sacrifice; to present in prayer or devotion; -- often with up. 
Often,adv., Frequently; many times; not seldom.
Ofter,adv., Compar. of Oft.
Ogham,n., A particular kind of writing practiced by the ancient Irish, and found in inscriptions on stones, metals, etc. 
Ogive,n., The arch or rib which crosses a Gothic vault diagonally.
Ogled,imp. & p. p., of Ogle
Ogler,n., One who ogles.
Oglio,n., See Olio.
Oiled,imp. & p. p., of Oil
Oiler,n., One who deals in oils.
Olden,a., Old; ancient; as, the olden time. 
Oleic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleic acid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glyceryl in the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils, such as sperm oil, olive oil, etc. At low temperatures the acid is crystalline, but melts to an oily liquid above 14/ C. 
Olein,n., A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at temperatures below 0? C., found abundantly in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin
Olent,a., Scented.
Oliva,n., A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical, and often beautifully colored. 
Olive,n., A tree (Olea Europaea
Ology,n., A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch of knowledge.
Omber,n., Alt. of Ombre
Ombre,n., A game at cards, borrowed from the Spaniards, and usually played by three persons. 
Omega,n., The last letter of the Greek alphabet. See Alpha.
Onely,a., See Only.
Onion,n., A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A. cepa
Onset,n., A rushing or setting upon; an attack; an assault; a storming; especially, the assault of an army. 
Oones,adv., Once.
Oopak,n., A kind of black tea.
Oozed,imp. & p. p., of Ooze
Oozoa,n. pl., Same as Acrita.
Opake,a., See Opaque.
Opera,n., A drama, either tragic or comic, of which music forms an essential part; a drama wholly or mostly sung, consisting of recitative, arials, choruses, duets, trios, etc., with orchestral accompaniment, preludes, and interludes, together with appropriate costumes, scenery, and action; a lyric drama. 
Opine,v. t. & i., To have an opinion; to judge; to think; to suppose.
Opium,n., The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or white poppy. 
Optic,a., The organ of sight; an eye.
Opera,pl. , of Opus
Orach,n., Alt. of Orache
Orang,n., See Orang-outang.
Orbed,imp. & p. p., of Orb
Orbic,a., Alt. of Orbical
Orbit,n., The path described by a heavenly body in its periodical revolution around another body; as, the orbit of Jupiter, of the earth, of the moon. 
Orcin,n., A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH
Ordal,n., Ordeal.
Order,n., Regular arrangement; any methodical or established succession or harmonious relation; method; system
Oread,n., One of the nymphs of mountains and grottoes.
Orgal,n., See Argol.
Organ,n., An instrument or medium by which some important action is performed, or an important end accomplished; as, legislatures, courts, armies, taxgatherers, etc., are organs of government. 
Orgue,n., Any one of a number of long, thick pieces of timber, pointed and shod with iron, and suspended, each by a separate rope, over a gateway, to be let down in case of attack. 
Oriel,n., A gallery for minstrels.
Oriol,n., See Oriel.
Orion,n., A large and bright constellation on the equator, between the stars Aldebaran and Sirius. It contains a remarkable nebula visible to the naked eye. 
Orlop,n., The lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consisting of a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cables are coiled. 
Ormer,n., An abalone.
Orpin,n., A yellow pigment of various degrees of intensity, approaching also to red. 
Orris,n., A plant of the genus Iris (I. Florentina
Orval,n., A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum
Orvet,n., The blindworm.
Oryal,n., Alt. of Oryall
Oryza,n., A genus of grasses including the rice plant; rice.
Osage,, An ornamental tree of the genus Maclura (M. aurantiaca
Oscan,a., Of or pertaining to the Osci, a primitive people of Campania, a province of ancient Italy. 
Osier,n., A kind of willow (Salix viminalis
Osmic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, osmium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a valence higher than in other lower compounds; as, osmic oxide. 
Ostic,a., Pertaining to, or applied to, the language of the Tuscaroras, Iroquois, Wyandots, Winnebagoes, and a part of the Sioux Indians. 
Ostia,pl. , of Ostium
Otary,n., Any eared seal.
Other,conj., Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either . . . or are now used
Otoba,, A colorless buttery substance obtained from the fruit of Myristica otoba, a species of nutmeg tree. 
Ottar,n., See Attar.
Otter,n., Any carnivorous animal of the genus Lutra, and related genera. Several species are described. They have large, flattish heads, short ears, and webbed toes. They are aquatic, and feed on fish. Their fur is soft and valuable. The common otter of Europe is Lutra vulgaris; the American otter is L. Canadensis; other species inhabit South America and Asia. 
Ought,n. & adv., See Aught.
Ounce,n., A weight, the sixteenth part of a pound avoirdupois, and containing 437/ grains. 
Oundy,a., Wavy; waving/ curly.
Ouphe,n., A fairy; a goblin; an elf.
Ousel,n., One of several species of European thrushes, especially the blackbird (Merula merula, or Turdus merula
Outdo,v. t., To go beyond in performance; to excel; to surpass.
Outer,a., Being on the outside; external; farthest or farther from the interior, from a given station, or from any space or position regarded as a center or starting place; -- opposed to inner; as, the outer wall; the outer court or gate; the outer stump in cricket; the outer world. 
Outgo,v. t., To go beyond; to exceed in swiftness; to surpass; to outdo.
Outre,a., Being out of the common course or limits; extravagant; bizarre.
Ouzel,n., Same as Ousel.
Ovant,a., Exultant.
Ovary,n., That part of the pistil which contains the seed, and in most flowering plants develops into the fruit. See Illust. of Flower. 
Ovate,a., Shaped like an egg, with the lower extremity broadest. 
Overt,a., Open to view; public; apparent; manifest.
Ovile,a., See Ovine.
Ovine,a., Of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep.
Ovist,n., Same as Ovulist.
Ovoid,a., Alt. of Ovoidal
Ovolo,n., A round, convex molding. See Illust. of Column. 
Ovule,n., The rudiment of a seed. It grows from a placenta, and consists of a soft nucleus within two delicate coatings. The attached base of the ovule is the hilum, the coatings are united with the nucleus at the chalaza, and their minute orifice is the foramen. 
Ovula,pl. , of Ovulum
Ovums,pl. , of Ovum
Ought,, of Owe
Owing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Owe
Owher,adv., Anywhere.
Owing,P. p. & a., Had or held under obligation of paying; due.
Owled,imp. & p. p., of Owl
Owler,v. i., One who owls; esp., one who conveys contraband goods. See Owling, n. 
Owlet,n., A small owl; especially, the European species (Athene noctua
Owned,imp. & p. p., of Own
Owner,n., One who owns; a rightful proprietor; one who has the legal or rightful title, whether he is the possessor or not. 
Owser,n., Tanner's ooze. See Ooze, 3. 
Oxbow,n., A frame of wood, bent into the shape of the letter U, and embracing an ox's neck as a kind of collar, the upper ends passing through the bar of the yoke; also, anything so shaped, as a bend in a river. 
Oxeye,n., The oxeye daisy. See under Daisy.
Oxfly,n., The gadfly of cattle.
Oxide,n., A binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or a compound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide, nitrogen oxide, etc. 
Oxime,n., One of a series of isonitroso derivatives obtained by the action of hydroxylamine on aldehydes or ketones.
Oxlip,n., The great cowslip (Primula veris, var. elatior
Oxter,n., The armpit; also, the arm. 
Oylet,n., See Eyelet.
Ozena,n., A discharge of fetid matter from the nostril, particularly if associated with ulceration of the soft parts and disease of the bones of the nose. 
Ozone,n., A colorless gaseous substance (O/
Paage,n., A toll for passage over another person's grounds.
Paard,n., The zebra.
Paced,imp. & p. p., of Pace
Pacer,n., One who, or that which, paces; especially, a horse that paces. 
Pacha,n., See Pasha.
Pacos,n., Same as Alpaca.
Padar,n., Groats; coarse flour or meal.
Paddy,a., Low; mean; boorish; vagabond.
Padge,n., The barn owl; -- called also pudge, and pudge owl. 
Padow,n., A paddock, or toad. 
Paean,n., An ancient Greek hymn in honor of Apollo as a healing deity, and, later, a song addressed to other deities. 
Paeon,n., A foot of four syllables, one long and three short, admitting of four combinations, according to the place of the long syllable. 
Pagan,n., One who worships false gods; an idolater; a heathen; one who is neither a Christian, a Mohammedan, nor a Jew. 
Paged,imp. & p. p., of Page
Pagod,n., A pagoda. [R.]   Or some queer pagod.   
Paien,n. & a., Pagan.
Pains,n., Labor; toilsome effort; care or trouble taken; -- plural in form, but used with a singular or plural verb, commonly the former. 
Paint,v. t., To cover with coloring matter; to apply paint to; as, to paint a house, a signboard, etc. 
Pairs,pl. , of Pair
Paise,n., See Poise.
Paled,imp. & p. p., of Pale
Palea,n., The interior chaff or husk of grasses.
Paled,a., Striped.
Palet,n., Same as Palea.
Palla,n., An oblong rectangular piece of cloth, worn by Roman ladies, and fastened with brooches. 
Palet,n., A perpendicular band upon an escutcheon, one half the breadth of the pale. 
Palma,, A plant (Ricinus communis
Palmy,a., Bearing palms; abounding in palms; derived from palms; as, a palmy shore. 
Palpi,n., pl. of Palpus. (Zool.
Palsy,n., Paralysis, complete or partial. See Paralysis. 
Palus,n., One of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals.
Pance,n., The pansy.
Panch,n., See Paunch.
Pancy,n., See Pansy.
Panda,n., A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens
Paned,a., Having panes; provided with panes; also, having openings; as, a paned window; paned window sash. 
Panel,n., A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc. 
Panic,n., A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass; also, the edible grain of some species of panic grass. 
Panim,n., See Painim.
Pansy,n., A plant of the genus Viola (V. tricolor
Panym,n. & a., See Panim.
Paolo,n., An old Italian silver coin, worth about ten cents. 
Papal,a., Of or pertaining to the pope of Rome; proceeding from the pope; ordered or pronounced by the pope; as, papal jurisdiction; a papal edict; the papal benediction. 
Papaw,n., A tree (Carica Papaya
Paper,n., A substance in the form of thin sheets or leaves intended to be written or printed on, or to be used in wrapping. It is made of rags, straw, bark, wood, or other fibrous material, which is first reduced to pulp, then molded, pressed, and dried. 
Pappy,a., Like pap; soft; succulent; tender.
Paque,n., See Pasch and Easter.
Param,n., A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C2H4N4
Parch,v. t., To burn the surface of; to scorch; to roast over the fire, as dry grain; as, to parch the skin; to parch corn. 
Parde,adv. / interj., Alt. of Pardie
Pardo,n., A money of account in Goa, India, equivalent to about 2s. 6d. sterling. or 60 cts. 
Pared,imp. & p. p., of Pare
Parer,v. t., One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring. 
Paris,n., A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia
Parle,v. i., To talk; to converse; to parley.
Parol,n., A word; an oral utterance.
Parry,v. t., To ward off; to stop, or to turn aside; as, to parry a thrust, a blow, or anything that means or threatens harm. 
Parse,n., To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically. 
Party,v., A part or portion.
Pasan,n., The gemsbok.
Pasch,n., Alt. of Pascha
Pasha,n., An honorary title given to officers of high rank in Turkey, as to governers of provinces, military commanders, etc. The earlier form was bashaw. 
Paspy,n., A kind of minuet, in triple time, of French origin, popular in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and for some time after; -- called also passing measure, and passymeasure. 
Passe,a., Alt. of Passee
Paste,n., A soft composition, as of flour moistened with water or milk, or of earth moistened to the consistence of dough, as in making potter's ware. 
Pasty,a., Like paste, as in color, softness, stickness. 
Patas,n., A West African long-tailed monkey (Cercopithecus ruber
Patch,n., A piece of cloth, or other suitable material, sewed or otherwise fixed upon a garment to repair or strengthen it, esp. upon an old garment to cover a hole. 
Pated,a., Having a pate; -- used only in composition; as, long-pated; shallow-pated. 
Patee,n., See Pattee.
Paten,n., A plate.
Paths,pl. , of Path
Patin,n., Alt. of Patine
Patio,n., A paved yard or floor where ores are cleaned and sorted, or where ore, salt, mercury, etc., are trampled by horses, to effect intermixture and amalgamation. 
Patly,adv., Fitly; seasonably.
Patte,a., Alt. of Pattee
Patty,n., A little pie.
Paugy,n., The scup. See Porgy, and Scup. 
Paune,n., A kind of bread. See Pone.
Pause,n., A temporary stop or rest; an intermission of action; interruption; suspension; cessation.
Pauxi,n., A curassow (Ourax pauxi
Pavan,n., A stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock.
Paved,imp. & p. p., of Pave
Paven,n., See Pavan.
Paver,n., One who paves; one who lays a pavement.
Pavid,a., Timid; fearful.
Pavin,n., See Pavan.
Pavon,n., A small triangular flag, esp. one attached to a knight's lance; a pennon. 
Pawed,imp. & p. p., of Paw
Pawky,a., Arch; cunning; sly.
Payee,n., The person to whom money is to be, or has been, paid; the person named in a bill or note, to whom, or to whose order, the amount is promised or directed to be paid. See Bill of exchange, under Bill. 
Payen,n. & a., Pagan.
Payer,n., One who pays; specifically, the person by whom a bill or note has been, or should be, paid. 
Payor,n., See Payer.
Payse,v. t., To poise.
Pease,pl. , of Pea
Peace,v., A state of quiet or tranquillity; freedom from disturbance or agitation; calm; repose
Peach,v. t., To accuse of crime; to inform against.
Peage,n., See Paage.
Peaky,a., Having a peak or peaks.
Pearl,n., A fringe or border.
Peart,a., Active; lively; brisk; smart; -- often applied to convalescents; as, she is quite peart to-day. 
Pease,n., A pea.
Peaty,a., Composed of peat; abounding in peat; resembling peat.
Pecan,n., A species of hickory (Carya olivaeformis
Pecco,n., See Pekoe.
Pecul,n., See Picul.
Pedal,a., Of or pertaining to the foot, or to feet, literally or figuratively; specifically (Zool.
Peece,n. & v., See Piece.
Peele,n., A graceful and swift South African antelope (Pelea capreola
Peery,a., Inquisitive; suspicious; sharp.
Peert,a., Same as Peart.
Peise,n., A weight; a poise.
Pekan,n., See Fisher, 2. 
Pekoe,n., A kind of black tea.
Pelma,n., The under surface of the foot.
Pelta,n., A small shield, especially one of an approximately elliptic form, or crescent-shaped. 
Penal,a., Of or pertaining to punishment, to penalties, or to crimes and offenses; pertaining to criminal jurisprudence 
Pence,n., pl. of Penny. See Penny.
Penis,n., The male member, or organ of generation. 
Penna,n., A perfect, or normal, feather. 
Penny,a., Denoting pound weight for one thousand; -- used in combination, with respect to nails; as, tenpenny nails, nails of which one thousand weight ten pounds. 
Pence,pl. , of Penny
Penny,n., An English coin, formerly of copper, now of bronze, the twelfth part of an English shilling in account value, and equal to four farthings, or about two cents; -- usually indicated by the abbreviation d. (the initial of denarius
Peony,n., A plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Paeonia. Of the four or five species, one is a shrub; the rest are perennial herbs with showy flowers, often double in cultivation. 
Perca,n., A genus of fishes, including the fresh-water perch. 
Perce,v. t., To pierce.
Perch,n., Any fresh-water fish of the genus Perca and of several other allied genera of the family Percidae, as the common American or yellow perch (Perca flavescens, / Americana
Perdu,a., One placed on watch, or in ambush. 
Perdy,adv., Truly. See Parde.
Perel,n., Apparel.
Peris,pl. , of Peri
Peril,n., Danger; risk; hazard; jeopardy; exposure of person or property to injury, loss, or destruction. 
Perky,a., Perk; pert; jaunty; trim.
Perry,n., A fermented liquor made from pears; pear cider.
Pedes,pl. , of Pes
Pesky,a., Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive.
Petal,n., One of the leaves of the corolla, or the colored leaves of a flower. See Corolla, and Illust. of Flower. 
Petar,n., See Petard.
Peter,n., A common baptismal name for a man. The name of one of the apostles, 
Petit,a., Small; little; insignificant; mean; -- Same as Petty.
Petre,n., See Saltpeter.
Petto,n., The breast.
Petty,superl., Little; trifling; inconsiderable; also, inferior; subordinate; as, a petty fault; a petty prince. 
Pewee,n., A common American tyrant flycatcher (Sayornis phoebe, or S. fuscus
Pewet,n., Same as Pewit.
Pewit,n., The lapwing.
Phane,n., See Fane.
Phare,n., A beacon tower; a lighthouse.
Pharo,n., A pharos; a lighthouse.
Phase,n., That which is exhibited to the eye; the appearance which anything manifests, especially any one among different and varying appearances of the same object. 
Phasm,n., Alt. of Phasma
Phebe,n., See Phoebe.
Pheer,n., See 1st Fere.
Phene,n., Benzene.
Pheon,n., A bearing representing the head of a dart or javelin, with long barbs which are engrailed on the inner edge. 
Phial,n., A glass vessel or bottle, especially a small bottle for medicines; a vial. 
Phlox,n., A genus of American herbs, having showy red, white, or purple flowers. 
Phoca,n., A genus of seals. It includes the common harbor seal and allied species. See Seal.
Phono,n., A South American butterfly (Ithonia phono
Photo,n., A contraction of Photograph.
Phyle,n., A local division of the people in ancient Athens; a clan; a tribe.
Phyla,pl. , of Phylon
Phyma,n., A tubercle on any external part of the body.
Physa,n., A genus of fresh-water Pulmonifera, having reversed spiral shells. See Pond snail, under Pond. 
Piano,a. & adv., Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.
Picea,n., A genus of coniferous trees of the northen hemisphere, including the Norway spruce and the American black and white spruces. These trees have pendent cones, which do not readily fall to pieces, in this and other respects differing from the firs. 
Picke,n., A small piece of land inclosed with a hedge; a close.
Picra,n., The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed as a cathartic. 
Picts,n. pl., A race of people of uncertain origin, who inhabited Scotland in early times. 
Picul,n., A commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities. In Borneo it is 135/ lbs.; in China and Sumatra, 133/ lbs.; in Japan, 133/ lbs.; but sometimes 130 lbs., etc. Called also, by the Chinese, tan. 
Picus,n., A genus of woodpeckers, including some of the common American and European species. 
Piece,n., A fragment or part of anything separated from the whole, in any manner, as by cutting, splitting, breaking, or tearing; a part; a portion; as, a piece of sugar; to break in pieces. 
Piend,n., See Peen.
Pieno,a., Full; having all the instruments.
Pieta,n., A representation of the dead Christ, attended by the Virgin Mary or by holy women and angels. 
Piety,n., Veneration or reverence of the Supreme Being, and love of his character; loving obedience to the will of God, and earnest devotion to his service. 
Pight,imp. & p. p., Pitched; fixed; determined.
Pigmy,n., See Pygmy.
Piked,a., Furnished with a pike; ending in a point; peaked; pointed.
Pilau,n., See Pillau.
Pilch,n., A gown or case of skin, or one trimmed or lined with fur. 
Piled,imp. & p. p., of Pile
Piler,n., One who places things in a pile.
Piles,n. pl., The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus and lower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids. See Hemorrhoids. [The singular pile is sometimes used.] 
Pilei,pl. , of Pileus
Pilot,n., One employed to steer a vessel; a helmsman; a steersman.
Pilwe,n., A pillow.
Pinax,n., A tablet; a register; hence, a list or scheme inscribed on a tablet. 
Pinch,v. t., To press hard or squeeze between the ends of the fingers, between teeth or claws, or between the jaws of an instrument; to squeeze or compress, as between any two hard bodies. 
Pined,imp. & p. p., of Pine
Piney,a., See Piny.
Pinic,a., Of or pertaining to the pine; obtained from the pine; formerly, designating an acid which is the chief constituent of common resin, -- now called abietic, or sylvic, acid. 
Pinky,n., See 1st Pink.
Pinna,n., A leaflet of a pinnate leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate. 
Pi?on,n., The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P. Parryana, cembroides, edulis, and monophylla, the nut pines of Western North America. 
Pinus,n., A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found in the northern hemisphere. The genus formerly included the firs, spruces, larches, and hemlocks, but is now limited to those trees which have the primary leaves of the branchlets reduced to mere scales, and the secondary ones (pine needles
Piony,n., See Peony.
Pious,a., Of or pertaining to piety; exhibiting piety; reverential; dutiful; religious; devout; godly.
Pipas,pl. , of Pipa
Pipal,, Same as Peepul tree.
Piped,imp. & p. p., of Pipe
Piper,n., See Pepper.
Pipit,n., Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidae. They strongly resemble the true larks in habits, colors, and the great length of the hind claw. They are, therefore, often called titlarks, and pipit larks. 
Pipra,n., Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridae. The male is usually glossy black, varied with scarlet, yellow, or sky blue. They chiefly inhabit South America. 
Pique,n., A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods for women and children, and for vestings, etc. 
Pirai,n., Same as Piraya.
Pirie,n., See Pirry.
Pirry,n., Alt. of Pirrie
Pisay,n., See Pise.
Pishu,n., The Canada lynx.
Piste,n., The track or tread a horseman makes upon the ground he goes over.
Pitch,n., A thick, black, lustrous, and sticky substance obtained by boiling down tar. It is used in calking the seams of ships; also in coating rope, canvas, wood, ironwork, etc., to preserve them. 
Pithy,superl., Consisting wholly, or in part, of pith; abounding in pith; as, a pithy stem; a pithy fruit. 
Pitta,n., Any one of a large group of bright-colored clamatorial birds belonging to Pitta, and allied genera of the family Pittidae. Most of the species are varied with three or more colors, such as blue, green, crimson, yellow, purple, and black. They are called also ground thrushes, and Old World ant thrushes; but they are not related to the true thrushes. 
Pivot,n., A fixed pin or short axis, on the end of which a wheel or other body turns. 
Pixie,n., An old English name for a fairy; an elf.
Place,n., Any portion of space regarded as measured off or distinct from all other space, or appropriated to some definite object or use; position; ground; site; spot; rarely, unbounded space. 
Plack,n., A small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, worth less than a cent. 
Plaga,n., A stripe of color.
Plage,n., A region; country.
Plaid,n., A rectangular garment or piece of cloth, usually made of the checkered material called tartan, but sometimes of plain gray, or gray with black stripes. It is worn by both sexes in Scotland. 
Plain,v. i., To lament; to bewail; to complain.
Plait,n., A flat fold; a doubling, as of cloth; a pleat; as, a box plait. 
Plane,n., Any tree of the genus Platanus.
Plank,n., A broad piece of sawed timber, differing from a board only in being thicker. See Board. 
Plant,n., A vegetable; an organized living being, generally without feeling and voluntary motion, and having, when complete, a root, stem, and leaves, though consisting sometimes only of a single leafy expansion, or a series of cellules, or even a single cellule. 
Plash,v., A small pool of standing water; a puddle.
Plasm,n., A mold or matrix in which anything is cast or formed to a particular shape.
Plate,n., A flat, or nearly flat, piece of metal, the thickness of which is small in comparison with the other dimensions; a thick sheet of metal; as, a steel plate. 
Platt,n., See Lodge, n. 
Platy,a., Like a plate; consisting of plates.
Plaud,v. t., To applaud.
Playa,n., A beach; a strand; in the plains and deserts of Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona, a broad, level spot, on which subsequently becomes dry by evaporation. 
Plaza,n., A public square in a city or town.
Plead,, of Plead
Pleat,n. & v. t., See Plait.
Plebe,n., The common people; the mob.
Plein,a., Plan.
Plene,ae., Full; complete; plenary.
Plesh,n., A pool; a plash.
Plete,v. t. & i., To plead.
Pleyt,n., An old term for a river boat.
Plica,v., A disease of the hair (Plica polonica
Plied,, imp. & p. p. of Ply.
Plitt,n., An instrument of punishment or torture resembling the knout, used in Russia. 
Ploce,n., A figure in which a word is separated or repeated by way of emphasis, so as not only to signify the individual thing denoted by it, but also its peculiar attribute or quality; as,   His wife's a wife indeed.   
Pluck,v. t., To pull; to draw.
Pluff,v. t., To throw out, as smoke, dust, etc., in puffs. 
Pluma,n., A feather.
Plumb,n., A little mass or weight of lead, or the like, attached to a line, and used by builders, etc., to indicate a vertical direction; a plummet; a plumb bob. See Plumb line, below. 
Plume,v., A feather; esp., a soft, downy feather, or a long, conspicuous, or handsome feather. 
Plump,adv., Well rounded or filled out; full; fleshy; fat; as, a plump baby; plump cheeks. 
Plumy,a., Covered or adorned with plumes, or as with plumes; feathery. 
Plush,n., A textile fabric with a nap or shag on one side, longer and softer than the nap of velvet. 
Pluto,n., The son of Saturn and Rhea, brother of Jupiter and Neptune; the dark and gloomy god of the Lower World. 
Plied,imp. & p. p., of Ply
Plyer,n., One who, or that which, plies 
Poach,v. & n., To cook, as eggs, by breaking them into boiling water; also, to cook with butter after breaking in a vessel. 
Poake,n., Waste matter from the preparation of skins, consisting of hair, lime, oil, etc. 
Pocan,n., The poke (Phytolacca decandra
Pocky,superl., Full of pocks; affected with smallpox or other eruptive disease.
Podge,n., A puddle; a plash.
Podgy,a., Fat and short; pudgy.
Podia,pl. , of Podium
Poesy,n., The art of composing poems; poetical skill or faculty; as, the heavenly gift of poesy. 
Poggy,n., See Porgy.
Poind,v. t., To impound, as cattle. 
Point,v. t. & i., To appoint.
Poise,v., Weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.
Poize,n., See Poise.
Pokal,n., A tall drinking cup.
Poked,imp. & p. p., of Poke
Poker,n., One who pokes.
Poket,n., A pocket.
Pokey,a., See Poky.
Polar,a., Of or pertaining to one of the poles of the earth, or of a sphere; situated near, or proceeding from, one of the poles; as, polar regions; polar seas; polar winds. 
Poled,imp. & p. p., of Pole
Poler,n., One who poles.
Poley,n., See Poly.
Polka,n., A dance of Polish origin, but now common everywhere. It is performed by two persons in common time. 
Polly,n., A woman's name; also, a popular name for a parrot. 
Polyp,n., One of the feeding or nutritive zooids of a hydroid or coral.
Pomel,n., A pommel.
Pomey,n., A figure supposed to resemble an apple; a roundel, -- always of a green color. 
Pomme,a., Having the ends terminating in rounded protuberances or single balls; -- said of a cross.
Pongo,n., Any large ape; especially, the chimpanzee and the orang-outang. 
Ponty,n., See Pontee.
Popet,n., A puppet.
Poppy,n., Any plant or species of the genus Papaver, herbs with showy polypetalous flowers and a milky juice. From one species (Papaver somniferum
Porch,n., A covered and inclosed entrance to a building, whether taken from the interior, and forming a sort of vestibule within the main wall, or projecting without and with a separate roof. Sometimes the porch is large enough to serve as a covered walk. See also Carriage porch, under Carriage, and Loggia. 
Pored,imp. & p. p., of Pore
Porer,n., One who pores.
Porgy,n., The scup.
Porta,n., The part of the liver or other organ where its vessels and nerves enter; the hilus.
Porte,n., The Ottoman court; the government of the Turkish empire, officially called the Sublime Porte, from the gate (port
Posed,imp. & p. p., of Pose
Poser,n., One who, or that which, puzzles; a difficult or inexplicable question or fact. 
Posit,v. t., To dispose or set firmly or fixedly; to place or dispose in relation to other objects.
Posse,n., See Posse comitatus.
Potch,v. i., To thrust; to push.
Potoo,n., A large South American goatsucker (Nyctibius grandis
Potto,n., A nocturnal mammal (Perodictius potto
Pouch,n., A small bag; usually, a leathern bag; as, a pouch for money; a shot pouch; a mail pouch, etc. 
Poulp,n., Alt. of Poulpe
Poult,n., A young chicken, partridge, grouse, or the like. 
Pound,v. t., To strike repeatedly with some heavy instrument; to beat.
Powan,n., Alt. of Powen
Powen,n., A small British lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeoides, or C. ferus
Power,n., Same as Poor, the fish. 
Poxed,imp. & p. p., of Pox
Poynd,n., Alt. of Poynder
Poyou,n., A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus
Praam,n., A flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war. 
Prame,n., See Praam.
Prank,v. t., To adorn in a showy manner; to dress or equip ostentatiously; -- often followed by up; as, to prank up the body. See Prink. 
Prase,n., A variety of cryptocrystalline of a leek-green color.
Prate,v. i., To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speak foolishly; to babble.
Prawn,n., Any one of numerous species of large shrimplike Crustacea having slender legs and long antennae. They mostly belong to the genera Pandalus, Palaemon, Palaemonetes, and Peneus, and are much used as food. The common English prawn is Palaemon serratus. 
Prede,v. i., To prey; to plunder.
Predy,a., Cleared and ready for engagement, as a ship. 
Preef,n., Proof.
Preen,n., A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth.
Prees,n., Press; throng.
Press,n., An East Indian insectivore (Tupaia ferruginea
Prest,, imp. & p. p. of Press.
Preve,v. i. & i., To prove.
Prial,n., A corruption of pair royal. See under Pair, n. 
Prian,n., A fine, white, somewhat friable clay; also, the ore contained in a mixture of clay and pebbles. 
Price,n. & v., The sum or amount of money at which a thing is valued, or the value which a seller sets on his goods in market; that for which something is bought or sold, or offered for sale; equivalent in money or other means of exchange; current value or rate paid or demanded in market or in barter; cost. 
Prick,v., That which pricks, penetrates, or punctures; a sharp and slender thing; a pointed instrument; a goad; a spur, etc.; a point; a skewer. 
Pride,n., A small European lamprey (Petromyzon branchialis
Pried,, imp. & p. p. of Pry.
Prief,n., Proof.
Prier,n., One who pries; one who inquires narrowly and searches, or is inquisitive. 
Prill,n., The brill.
Prima,pl. , of Prima donna
Prime,#, Donne (#
Prima,a., The first or chief female singer in an opera.
Prime,a., First in order of time; original; primeval; primitive; primary.
Primo,a., First; chief.
Primp,a., To be formal or affected in dress or manners; -- often with up.
Primy,a., Being in its prime.
Prink,v. t., To dress or adjust one's self for show; to prank.
Print,v. t., To fix or impress, as a stamp, mark, character, idea, etc., into or upon something. 
Prior,a., Preceding in the order of time; former; antecedent; anterior; previous; as, a prior discovery; prior obligation; -- used elliptically in cases like the following: he lived alone [in the time] prior to his marriage. 
Prise,n., An enterprise.
Prism,n., A solid whose bases or ends are any similar, equal, and parallel plane figures, and whose sides are parallelograms. 
Privy,a., Of or pertaining to some person exclusively; assigned to private uses; not public; private; as, the privy purse. 
Prize,n., That which is taken from another; something captured; a thing seized by force, stratagem, or superior power. 
Probe,v. t., To examine, as a wound, an ulcer, or some cavity of the body, with a probe. 
Prodd,n., A crossbow. See Prod, 3. 
Proem,n., Preface; introduction; preliminary observations; prelude.
Proin,v. t., To lop; to trim; to prune; to adorn.
Proke,v. i., To poke; to thrust.
Proll,v. t., To search or prowl after; to rob; to plunder.
Promt,superl., Ready and quick to act as occasion demands; meeting requirements readily; not slow, dilatory, or hesitating in decision or action; responding on the instant; immediate; as, prompt in obedience or compliance; -- said of persons. 
Prone,a., Bending forward; inclined; not erect.
Prong,n., A sharp-pointed instrument.
Proof,n., Any effort, process, or operation designed to establish or discover a fact or truth; an act of testing; a test; a trial. 
Props,n. pl., A game of chance, in which four sea shells, each called a prop, are used instead of dice. 
Prore,n., The prow or fore part of a ship.
Prose,n., The ordinary language of men in speaking or writing; language not cast in poetical measure or rhythm; -- contradistinguished from verse, or metrical composition. 
Prosy,superl., Of or pertaining to prose; like prose.
Proud,superl., Feeling or manifesting pride, in a good or bad sense 
Prove,v. t., To try or to ascertain by an experiment, or by a test or standard; to test; as, to prove the strength of gunpowder or of ordnance; to prove the contents of a vessel by a standard measure. 
Prowl,v. t., To rove over, through, or about in a stealthy manner; esp., to search in, as for prey or booty. 
Proxy,n., The agency for another who acts through the agent; authority to act for another, esp. to vote in a legislative or corporate capacity. 
Pruce,n., Prussian leather.
Prude,a., A woman of affected modesty, reserve, or coyness; one who is overscrupulous or sensitive; one who affects extraordinary prudence in conduct and speech. 
Prune,v. t., To lop or cut off the superfluous parts, branches, or shoots of; to clear of useless material; to shape or smooth by trimming; to trim: as, to prune trees; to prune an essay. 
Pried,imp. & p. p., of Pry
Pryan,n., See Prian.
Psalm,n., A sacred song; a poetical composition for use in the praise or worship of God.
Pshaw,interj., Pish! pooch! -- an exclamation used as an expression of contempt, disdain, dislike, etc. 
Psoas,n., An internal muscle arising from the lumbar vertebrae and inserted into the femur. In man there are usually two on each side, and the larger one, or great psoas, forms a part of the iliopsoas. 
Psora,n., A cutaneous disease; especially, the itch. 
Pubes,n., The hair which appears upon the lower part of the hypogastric region at the age of puberty.
Pubic,a., Of or pertaining to the pubes; in the region of the pubes; as, the pubic bone; the pubic region, or the lower part of the hypogastric region. See Pubes. 
Pubis,n., The ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; sharebone; pubic bone.
Pucel,n., See Pucelle.
Pudgy,a., Short and fat or sturdy; dumpy; podgy; as, a short, pudgy little man; a pudgy little hand. 
Pudic,a., Of or pertaining to the external organs of generation.
Puing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pue
Puffy,a., Swelled with air, or any soft matter; tumid with a soft substance; bloated; fleshy; as, a puffy tumor. 
Pugil,n., As much as is taken up between the thumb and two first fingers.
Puked,imp. & p. p., of Puke
Puker,n., One who pukes, vomits. 
Pulas,n., The East Indian leguminous tree Butea frondosa. See Gum Butea, under Gum. 
Puled,imp. & p. p., of Pule
Puler,n., One who pules; one who whines or complains; a weak person.
Pulex,n., A genus of parasitic insects including the fleas. See Flea.
Pulli,pl. , of Pullus
Pulpy,n., Like pulp; consisting of pulp; soft; fleshy; succulent; as, the pulpy covering of a nut; the pulpy substance of a peach or a cherry. 
Pulse,n., Leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, pease, etc. 
Punch,n., A beverage composed of wine or distilled liquor, water (or milk
Pungy,n., A small sloop or shallop, or a large boat with sails. 
Punic,a., Of or pertaining to the ancient Carthaginians.
Punka,n., A machine for fanning a room, usually a movable fanlike frame covered with canvas, and suspended from the ceiling. It is kept in motion by pulling a cord. 
Punto,n., A point or hit.
Punty,n., See Pontee.
Pupas,pl. , of Pupa
Pupal,a., Of or pertaining to a pupa, or the condition of a pupa. 
Pupil,n., The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the eye. See the Note under Eye, and Iris. 
Puppy,n., The young of a canine animal, esp. of the common dog; a whelp. 
Pured,a., Purified; refined.
Puree,n., A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp and rubbing it through a sieve; as, a puree of fish, or of potatoes; especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated. 
Purge,v. t., To cleanse, clear, or purify by separating and carrying off whatever is impure, heterogeneous, foreign, or superfluous. 
Purim,n., A Jewish festival, called also the Feast of Lots, instituted to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews from the machinations of Haman. 
Purre,n., The dunlin.
Purse,n., A small bag or pouch, the opening of which is made to draw together closely, used to carry money in; by extension, any receptacle for money carried on the person; a wallet; a pocketbook; a portemonnaie. 
Pursy,a., Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with pampering; as, pursy insolence. 
Pusil,a., Very small; little; petty.
Pussy,n., A pet name for a cat; also, an endearing name for a girl. 
Putid,a., Rotten; fetid; stinking; base; worthless. Jer. Taylor.
Putry,a., Putrid.
Putty,n., A kind of thick paste or cement compounded of whiting, or soft carbonate of lime, and linseed oil, when applied beaten or kneaded to the consistence of dough, -- used in fastening glass in sashes, stopping crevices, and for similar purposes. 
Pygal,a., Situated in the region of the rump, or posterior end of the backbone; -- applied especially to the posterior median plates in the carapace of chelonians. 
Pygmy,a., Alt. of Pygmean
Pykar,n., An ancient English fishing boat.
Pylae,pl. , of Pyla
Pylas,pl. , of Pyla
Pylon,n., A low tower, having a truncated pyramidal form, and flanking an ancient Egyptian gateway. 
Pyoid,a., Of or pertaining to pus; of the nature of, or like, pus. 
Pyral,a., Of or pertaining to a pyre.
Pyrus,n., A genus of rosaceous trees and shrubs having pomes for fruit. It includes the apple, crab apple, pear, chokeberry, sorb, and mountain ash. 
Pyxle,n., Same as Pixy.
Pyxis,n., A box; a pyx.
Quack,v. i., To utter a sound like the cry of a duck.
Quade,a., Evil; bad; baffling; as, a quade wind. 
Quaff,v. t., To drink with relish; to drink copiously of; to swallow in large draughts.
Quail,v. i., To die; to perish; hence, to wither; to fade. 
Quair,n., A quire; a book.
Quake,v. i., To be agitated with quick, short motions continually repeated; to shake with fear, cold, etc.; to shudder; to tremble. 
Quaky,a., Shaky, or tremulous; quaking. 
Qualm,n., Sickness; disease; pestilence; death.
Quant,n., A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it from sinking into the mud; a setting pole.
Quarl,n., A medusa, or jellyfish. 
Quart,n., The fourth part; a quarter; hence, a region of the earth. 
Quash,n., Same as Squash.
Quasi,, As if; as though; as it were; in a manner sense or degree; having some resemblance to; qualified; -- used as an adjective, or a prefix with a noun or an adjective; as, a quasi contract, an implied contract, an obligation which has arisen from some act, as if from a contract; a quasi corporation, a body that has some, but not all, of the peculiar attributes of a corporation; a quasi argument, that which resembles, or is used as, an argument; quasi historical, apparently historical, seeming to be historical. 
Quass,n., A thin, sour beer, made by pouring warm water on rye or barley meal and letting it ferment, -- much used by the Russians. 
Quata,n., The coaita.
Quave,n., See Quaver.
Quayd,, p. p. of Quail.
Quean,n., A woman; a young or unmarried woman; a girl.
Quech,v. i., Alt. of Queck
Queck,v. i., A word occurring in a corrupt passage of Bacon's Essays, and probably meaning, to stir, to move. 
Queen,n., The wife of a king.
Queer,a., At variance with what is usual or normal; differing in some odd way from what is ordinary; odd; singular; strange; whimsical; as, a queer story or act. 
Quegh,n., A drinking vessel. See Quaich.
Quell,v. i., To die.
Queme,v. t. & i., To please.
Querl,v. t., To twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord, thread, or rope. 
Quern,n., A mill for grinding grain, the upper stone of which was turned by hand; -- used before the invention of windmills and watermills. 
Query,n., A question; an inquiry to be answered or solved.
Quest,n., The act of seeking, or looking after anything; attempt to find or obtain; search; pursuit; as, to rove in quest of game, of a lost child, of property, etc. 
Queue,n., A tail-like appendage of hair; a pigtail.
Quica,n., A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica
Quice,n., See Queest.
Quich,v. i., To stir.
Quick,superl., Alive; living; animate; -- opposed to dead or inanimate.
Quiet,a., In a state of rest or calm; without stir, motion, or agitation; still; as, a quiet sea; quiet air. 
Quill,n., One of the large feathers of a bird's wing, or one of the rectrices of the tail; also, the stock of such a feather. 
Quilt,n., Anything that is quilted; esp., a quilted bed cover, or a skirt worn by women; any cover or garment made by putting wool, cotton, etc., between two cloths and stitching them together; also, any outer bed cover. 
Quint,n., A set or sequence of five, as in piquet. 
Quipo,n., Same as Quipu.
Quipu,n., A contrivance employed by the ancient Peruvians, Mexicans, etc., as a substitute for writing and figures, consisting of a main cord, from which hung at certain distances smaller cords of various colors, each having a special meaning, as silver, gold, corn, soldiers. etc. Single, double, and triple knots were tied in the smaller cords, representing definite numbers. It was chiefly used for arithmetical purposes, and to register important facts and events. 
Quire,n., See Choir.
Quirk,n., A sudden turn; a starting from the point or line; hence, an artful evasion or subterfuge; a shift; a quibble; as, the quirks of a pettifogger. 
Quirl,n. & v., See Querl.
Quirt,n., A rawhide whip plaited with two thongs of buffalo hide.
Quish,n., See Cuish.
Quite,v. t. & i., See Quit.
Quits,interj., See the Note under Quit, a. 
Quoif,n. & v. t., See Coif.
Quoil,n., See Coil.
Quoin,n., Originally, a solid exterior angle, as of a building; now, commonly, one of the selected pieces of material by which the corner is marked. 
Quoit,n., A flattened ring-shaped piece of iron, to be pitched at a fixed object in play; hence, any heavy flat missile used for the same purpose, as a stone, piece of iron, etc. 
Quoke,, imp. of Quake.
Quoll,n., A marsupial of Australia (Dasyurus macrurus
Quook,, imp. of Quake.
Quota,n., A proportional part or share; the share or proportion assigned to each in a division.
Quote,v. t., To cite, as a passage from some author; to name, repeat, or adduce, as a passage from an author or speaker, by way of authority or illustration; as, to quote a passage from Homer. 
Quoth,v. t., Said; spoke; uttered; -- used only in the first and third persons in the past tenses, and always followed by its nominative, the word or words said being the object; as, quoth I. quoth he. 
Quran,n., See Koran.
Raash,n., The electric catfish.
Rabat,n., A polishing material made of potter's clay that has failed in baking.
Rabbi,n., Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law.
Rabid,n., Furious; raging; extremely violent.
Rabot,n., A rubber of hard wood used in smoothing marble to be polished.
Raced,imp. & p. p., of Race
Racer,n., One who, or that which, races, or contends in a race; esp., a race horse. 
Rache,n., A dog that pursued his prey by scent, as distinguished from the greyhound. 
Racle,a., See Rakel.
Radde,, imp. of Read, Rede. 
Radii,n., pl. of Radius.
Radix,n., A primitive word, from which spring other words; a radical; a root; an etymon. 
Rafte,, imp. of Reave.
Rafty,a., Damp; musty.
Raged,imp. & p. p., of Rage
Raggy,a., Ragged; rough.
Raiae,n. pl., The order of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sawfishes, skates, and rays; -- called also Rajae, and Rajii. 
Rainy,a., Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy weather; a rainy day or season. 
Raise,v. t., To cause to rise; to bring from a lower to a higher place; to lift upward; to elevate; to heave; as, to raise a stone or weight. 
Rajah,a., A native prince or king; also, a landholder or person of importance in the agricultural districts. 
Raked,imp. & p. p., of Rake
Rakel,a., Hasty; reckless; rash.
Raker,n., One who, or that which, rakes 
Rally,v. t., To collect, and reduce to order, as troops dispersed or thrown into confusion; to gather again; to reunite. 
Ralph,n., A name sometimes given to the raven.
Ramal,a., Of or pertaining to a ramus, or branch; rameal. 
Ramed,a., Having the frames, stem, and sternpost adjusted; -- said of a ship on the stocks. 
Ramee,n., See Ramie.
Ramie,n., The grass-cloth plant (B/hmeria nivea
Rammy,a., Like a ram; rammish.
Rampe,n., The cuckoopint.
Ramus,n., A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; a ramification.
Ranal,a., Having a general affinity to ranunculaceous plants.
Rance,n., A prop or shore.
Ranch,v. t., To wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion.
Ranee,n., Same as Rani.
Range,n., To set in a row, or in rows; to place in a regular line or lines, or in ranks; to dispose in the proper order; to rank; as, to range soldiers in line. 
Ranny,n., The erd shrew.
Ranty,a., Wild; noisy; boisterous.
Raphe,n., A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue. 
Rapid,a., Very swift or quick; moving with celerity; fast; as, a rapid stream; a rapid flight; a rapid motion. 
Rased,imp. & p. p., of Rase
Raspy,a., Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating. 
Rasse,n., A carnivore (Viverricula Mallaccensis
Ratan,n., See Rattan.
Ratch,n., Same as Rotche.
Rated,imp. & p. p., of Rate
Ratel,n., Any carnivore of the genus Mellivora, allied to the weasels and the skunks; -- called also honey badger. 
Rater,n., One who rates or estimates.
Rathe,a., Coming before others, or before the usual time; early. 
Ratio,n., The relation which one quantity or magnitude has to another of the same kind. It is expressed by the quotient of the division of the first by the second; thus, the ratio of 3 to 6 is expressed by / or /; of a to b by a/b; or (less commonly
Raton,n., A small rat.
Raved,imp. & p. p., of Rave
Ravel,v. t., To separate or undo the texture of; to take apart; to untwist; to unweave or unknit; -- often followed by out; as, to ravel a twist; to ravel out a stocking. 
Raven,n., A large black passerine bird (Corvus corax
Raver,n., One who raves.
Ravin,a., Ravenous.
Rawly,adv., In a raw manner; unskillfully; without experience.
Rayed,imp. & p. p., of Ray
Rayah,n., A person not a Mohammedan, who pays the capitation tax. 
Rayon,n., Ray; beam.
Razed,imp. & p. p., of Raze
Razee,v. t., An armed ship having her upper deck cut away, and thus reduced to the next inferior rate, as a seventy-four cut down to a frigate. 
Razor,v. t., A keen-edged knife of peculiar shape, used in shaving the hair from the face or the head. 
Reach,v. i., To retch.
React,v. t., To act or perform a second time; to do over again; as, to react a play; the same scenes were reacted at Rome. 
Ready,superl., Prepared for what one is about to do or experience; equipped or supplied with what is needed for some act or event; prepared for immediate movement or action; as, the troops are ready to march; ready for the journey. 
Realm,n., A royal jurisdiction or domain; a region which is under the dominion of a king; a kingdom.
Reame,n., Realm.
Reata,n., A lariat.
Reave,v. i., To take away by violence or by stealth; to snatch away; to rob; to despoil; to bereave. [Archaic]
Rebec,n., An instrument formerly used which somewhat resembled the violin, having three strings, and being played with a bow. 
Rebel,v. i., Pertaining to rebels or rebellion; acting in revolt; rebellious; as, rebel troops. 
Rebus,n., A mode of expressing words and phrases by pictures of objects whose names resemble those words, or the syllables of which they are composed; enigmatical representation of words by figures; hence, a peculiar form of riddle made up of such representations. 
Rebut,v. t., To drive or beat back; to repulse.
Recto,n., A writ of right.
Recti,pl. , of Rectus
Recur,v. i., To come back; to return again or repeatedly; to come again to mind.
Redan,n., A work having two parapets whose faces unite so as to form a salient angle toward the enemy.
Redde,, obs. imp. of Read, or Rede. 
Redia,n., A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation. It in turn produces, in the same way, either another generation of rediae, or else cercariae within its own body. Called also proscolex, and nurse. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Redly,adv., In a red manner; with redness.
Redub,v. t., To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite. 
Reedy,a., Abounding with reeds; covered with reeds.
Reefy,a., Full of reefs or rocks.
Reeky,a., Soiled with smoke or steam; smoky; foul.
Reeve,n., The female of the ruff.
Refar,v. t., To go over again; to repeat.
Refel,v. t., To refute; to disprove; as, to refel the tricks of a sophister. 
Refer,v. t., To carry or send back.
Refit,v. t., To fit or prepare for use again; to repair; to restore after damage or decay; as, to refit a garment; to refit ships of war. 
Refix,v. t., To fix again or anew; to establish anew.
Refut,n., Refuge.
Regal,a., Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal; as, regal authority, pomp, or sway. 
Regel,n., See Rigel.
Reget,v. t., To get again.
Regle,v. t., To rule; to govern.
Regma,n., A kind of dry fruit, consisting of three or more cells, each which at length breaks open at the inner angle. 
Regne,n. & v., See Reign.
Reign,n., Royal authority; supreme power; sovereignty; rule; dominion.
Reins,n. pl., The kidneys; also, the region of the kidneys; the loins. 
Rekne,v. t., To reckon.
Relax,n., To make lax or loose; to make less close, firm, rigid, tense, or the like; to slacken; to loosen; to open; as, to relax a rope or cord; to relax the muscles or sinews. 
Relay,v. t., To lay again; to lay a second time; as, to relay a pavement. 
Relic,n., That which remains; that which is left after loss or decay; a remaining portion; a remnant.
Relik,n., Relic.
Remit,v. t., To send back; to give up; to surrender; to resign.
Remix,v. t., To mix again or repeatedly.
Remue,v. t., To remove.
Renal,a., Of or pertaining to the kidneys; in the region of the kidneys.
Renay,v. t., To deny; to disown.
Renew,v. t., To make new again; to restore to freshness, perfection, or vigor; to give new life to; to rejuvenate; to re/stablish; to recreate; to rebuild. 
Renne,v. t., To plunder; -- only in the phrase   to rape and renne.   See under Rap, v. t., to snatch. 
Rente,n., In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; the bonds, shares, stocks, etc., which represent government indebtedness. 
Repay,v. t., To pay back; to refund; as, to repay money borrowed or advanced. 
Repel,v. t., To drive back; to force to return; to check the advance of; to repulse as, to repel an enemy or an assailant. 
Reply,v. i., To make a return in words or writing; to respond; to answer.
Resaw,v. t., To saw again; specifically, to saw a balk, or a timber, which has already been squared, into dimension lumber, as joists, boards, etc. 
Reset,v. t., To set again; as, to reset type; to reset copy; to reset a diamond. 
Resin,n., Any one of a class of yellowish brown solid inflammable substances, of vegetable origin, which are nonconductors of electricity, have a vitreous fracture, and are soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but not in water; specif., pine resin (see Rosin
Resow,v. t., To sow again.
Resty,a., Disposed to rest; indisposed toexercton; sluggish; also, restive. 
Retch,v. i., To make an effort to vomit; to strain, as in vomiting. 
Retex,v. t., To annual, as orders. 
Retry,v. t., To try (esp. judicially
Rette,v. t., See Aret.
Reule,n.& v., Rule.
Reume,n., Realm.
Revel,n., See Reveal.
Revet,v. t., To face, as an embankment, with masonry, wood, or other material. 
Revie,v. t., To vie with, or rival, in return. 
Rewel,, An obsolete phrase of disputed meaning, -- perhaps, smooth or polished bone. 
Rewet,n., A gunlock.
Rewin,v. t., To win again, or win back. 
Rewle,n. & v., Rule.
Rewme,n., Realm.
Rewth,n., Ruth.
Reges,pl. , of Rex
Reyse,v. t., To raise.
Rheae,n. pl., A suborder of struthious birds including the rheas.
Rheic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called chrysophanic acid
Rhein,n., Chrysophanic acid.
Rheum,n., A genus of plants. See Rhubarb.
Rhime,n., See Rhyme.
Rhine,n., A water course; a ditch.
Rhino,n., Gold and silver, or money. 
Rhomb,n., An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whose sides are equal and the opposite sides parallel. The angles may be unequal, two being obtuse and two acute, as in the cut, or the angles may be equal, in which case it is usually called a square. 
Rhumb,n., A line which crosses successive meridians at a constant angle; -- called also rhumb line, and loxodromic curve. See Loxodromic. 
Rhyme,n., An expression of thought in numbers, measure, or verse; a composition in verse; a rhymed tale; poetry; harmony of language. 
Riant,a., Laughing; laughable; exciting gayety; gay; merry; delightful to the view, as a landscape. 
Riban,n., See Ribbon.
Ribes,n., A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds.
Riden,, imp. pl. & p. p. of Ride.
Rider,n., One who, or that which, rides. 
Ridge,n., The back, or top of the back; a crest. 
Ridgy,a., Having a ridge or ridges; rising in a ridge.
Rifle,v. t., To seize and bear away by force; to snatch away; to carry off.
Rigel,n., A fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion.
Right,a., Straight; direct; not crooked; as, a right line. 
Rigid,a., Firm; stiff; unyielding; not pliant; not flexible.
Rigol,n., A circle; hence, a diadem. 
Rigor,n., Rigidity; stiffness.
Riled,imp. & p. p., of Rile
Rille,n., One of certain narrow, crooked valleys seen, by aid of the telescope, on the surface of the moon. 
Rimae,pl. , of Rima
Rimau,, The clouded tiger cat (Felis marmorata
Rimed,imp. & p. p., of Rime
Rimer,n., A rhymer; a versifier.
Rimey,v. t., To compose in rhyme; to versify.
Rindy,a., Having a rind or skin.
Rined,a., Having a rind
Rinse,v. t., To wash lightly; to cleanse with a second or repeated application of water after washing.
Ripen,v. i., To grow ripe; to become mature, as grain, fruit, flowers, and the like; as, grapes ripen in the sun. 
Risen,p. p., of Rise
Riser,n., One who rises; as, an early riser. 
Risky,a., Attended with risk or danger; hazardous.
Risse,, imp. of Rise.
Rival,n., A person having a common right or privilege with another; a partner.
Rived,imp., of Rive
Riven,, of Rive
Rivel,v. t., To contract into wrinkles; to shrivel; to shrink; as, riveled fruit; riveled flowers. 
Riven,, p. p. & a. from Rive.
River,n., One who rives or splits.
Rivet,n., A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head; a pin or bolt headed or clinched at both ends. 
Roach,n., A cockroach.
Roast,v. t., To cook by exposure to radiant heat before a fire; as, to roast meat on a spit, or in an oven open toward the fire and having reflecting surfaces within; also, to cook in a close oven. 
Robed,imp. & p. p., of Robe
Robin,n., A small European singing bird (Erythacus rubecula
Roche,n., Rock.
Rocky,a., Full of, or abounding in, rocks; consisting of rocks; as, a rocky mountain; a rocky shore. 
Rocoa,n., The orange-colored pulp covering the seeds of the tropical plant Bixa Orellana, from which annotto is prepared. See Annoto. 
Roddy,a., Full of rods or twigs.
Rodeo,n., A round-up. See Round-up.
Rodge,n., The gadwall.
Rogue,n., A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp. 
Roguy,a., Roguish.
Rohob,n., An inspissated juice. See Rob.
Roial,a., Royal.
Roily,a., Turbid; as, roily water. 
Roint,interj., See Aroint.
Roist,v. i., See Roister.
Rokee,n., Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage. 
Roman,a., Of or pertaining to Rome, or the Roman people; like or characteristic of Rome, the Roman people, or things done by Romans; as, Roman fortitude; a Roman aqueduct; Roman art. 
Romic,n., A method of notation for all spoken sounds, proposed by Mr. Sweet; -- so called because it is based on the common Roman-letter alphabet. It is like the palaeotype of Mr. Ellis in the general plan, but simpler. 
Rompu,a., Broken, as an ordinary; cut off, or broken at the top, as a chevron, a bend, or the like. 
Ronco,n., See Croaker, n., 2. (a
Ronde,n., A kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look. 
Rondo,n., A composition, vocal or instrumental, commonly of a lively, cheerful character, in which the first strain recurs after each of the other strains. 
Ronne,, obs. imp. pl.
Roody,a., Rank in growth.
Roofy,a., Having roofs.
Rooky,a., Misty; gloomy.
Roomy,a., Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; a roomy deck. 
Roosa,, The East Indian name for grass oil. See under Grass.
Roost,n., Roast.
Rooty,a., Full of roots; as, rooty ground. 
Roped,imp. & p. p., of Rope
Roper,n., A maker of ropes.
Roral,a., Of or pertaining to dew; consisting of dew; dewy.
Roric,a., Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy.
Rorid,a., Dewy; bedewed.
Rosen,a., Consisting of roses; rosy.
Roser,n., A rosier; a rosebush.
Roset,n., A red color used by painters.
Rosin,n., The hard, amber-colored resin left after distilling off the volatile oil of turpentine; colophony. 
Rotal,a., Relating to wheels or to rotary motion; rotary.
Roted,imp. & p. p., of Rote
Rotta,n., See Rota.
Rouet,n., A small wheel formerly fixed to the pan of firelocks for discharging them.
Rouge,a., red.
Rough,n., Having inequalities, small ridges, or points, on the surface; not smooth or plain; as, a rough board; a rough stone; rough cloth. 
Round,v. i. & t., To whisper.
Rouse,v. i. & t., To pull or haul strongly and all together, as upon a rope, without the assistance of mechanical appliances. 
Roust,v. t., To rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out. 
Route,n., The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march. 
Roved,imp. & p. p., of Rove
Rover,v. i., One who practices robbery on the seas; a pirate.
Rowed,imp. & p. p., of Row
Rowan,n., Rowan tree.
Rowdy,n., One who engages in rows, or noisy quarrels; a ruffianly fellow. 
Rowed,a., Formed into a row, or rows; having a row, or rows; as, a twelve-rowed ear of corn. 
Rowel,n., The little wheel of a spur, with sharp points. 
Rowen,n., A stubble field left unplowed till late in the autumn, that it may be cropped by cattle. 
Rower,n., One who rows with an oar.
Royal,a., Kingly; pertaining to the crown or the sovereign; suitable for a king or queen; regal; as, royal power or prerogative; royal domains; the royal family; royal state. 
Royne,v. t., To bite; to gnaw.
Rubin,n., A ruby.
Ruble,n., The unit of monetary value in Russia. It is divided into 100 copecks, and in the gold coin of the realm (as in the five and ten ruble pieces
Rubus,n., A genus of rosaceous plants, including the raspberry and blackberry. 
Ruche,n., A plaited, quilled, or goffered strip of lace, net, ribbon, or other material, -- used in place of collars or cuffs, and as a trimming for women's dresses and bonnets. 
Ruddy,n., Of a red color; red, or reddish; as, a ruddy sky; a ruddy flame. 
Ruing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rue
Ruell,, See rewel bone.
Ruffe,n., A small freshwater European perch (Acerina vulgaris
Rufol,n., A phenol derivative of anthracene obtained as a white crystalline substance, which on oxidation produces a red dyestuff related to anthraquinone. 
Rugae,pl. , of Ruga
Ruggy,a., Rugged; rough.
Rugin,n., A nappy cloth.
Ruled,imp. & p. p., of Rule
Ruler,n., One who rules; one who exercises sway or authority; a governor.
Rumbo,n., Grog.
Rumen,n., The first stomach of ruminants; the paunch; the fardingbag. See Illust. below.
Rummy,a., Of or pertaining to rum; characteristic of rum; as a rummy flavor.
Rumor,n., A flying or popular report; the common talk; hence, public fame; notoriety. 
Runch,n., The wild radish.
Runer,n., A bard, or learned man, among the ancient Goths. 
Runic,a., Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme. 
Runty,a., Like a runt; diminutive; mean.
Rupee,n., A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies. 
Rupia,n., An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust. 
Rural,a., Of or pertaining to the country, as distinguished from a city or town; living in the country; suitable for, or resembling, the country; rustic; as, rural scenes; a rural prospect. 
Rushy,a., Abounding with rushes.
Rusma,n., A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by the Turks. See Rhusma. 
Rusty,superl., Covered or affected with rust; as, a rusty knife or sword; rusty wheat. 
Rutic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta
Rutin,n., A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin. Rutin is found in the leaves of the rue (Ruta graveolens
Rutty,a., Ruttish; lustful.
Ryder,n., A clause added to a document; a rider. See Rider.
Saadh,n., See Sadh.
Sabal,n., A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States.
Saber,n., Alt. of Sabre
Sabre,n., A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword. 
Saber,v. t., Alt. of Sabre
Sabre,v. t., To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber. 
Sable,n., A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina
Sabot,n., A kind of wooden shoe worn by the peasantry in France, Belgium, Sweden, and some other European countries. 
Sabre,n. & v., See Saber.
Sacar,n., See Saker.
Sacci,pl. , of Saccus
Sacre,n., See Saker.
sacra,pl. , of Sacrum
Sadda,n., A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend-Avesta, or sacred books. 
Sadly,adv., Wearily; heavily; firmly.
Sagas,pl. , of Saga
Sagum,n., The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.
Sagus,n., A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.
Sahib,n., Alt. of Saheb
Saheb,n., A respectful title or appellation given to Europeans of rank.
Sahui,n., A marmoset.
Saiga,n., An antelope (Saiga Tartarica
Saily,a., Like a sail.
Saint,n., A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to God. 
Saith,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Say.
Saiva,n., One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration.
Sajou,n., Same as Sapajou.
Saker,n., A falcon (Falco sacer
Sakti,n., The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.
Salad,n., A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad, etc. 
Salam,n., A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead. 
Saleb,n., See Salep.
Salep,n., The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water. 
Salic,a., Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called. 
Salix,n., A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the like, growing usually in wet grounds. 
Sally,v. i., To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally.
Salmi,n., Same as Salmis.
Salol,n., A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate.
Salon,n., An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, fashionable parties; circles of fashionable society. 
Salpa,n., A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Salse,n., A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name. 
Salty,a., Somewhat salt; saltish.
Salue,v. t., To salute.
Salve,interj., Hail!
Salvo,n., An exception; a reservation; an excuse.
Sambo,n., A colloquial or humorous appellation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo. 
Sandy,superl., Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand; covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil. 
Sanga,n., Alt. of Sangu
Sangu,n., The Abyssinian ox (Bos / Bibos, Africanus
Sanny,n., The sandpiper.
Sapan,, A dyewood yielded by Caesalpinia Sappan, a thorny leguminous tree of Southern Asia and the neighboring islands. It is the original Brazil wood. 
Sapid,a., Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing savor, or flavor. 
Sapor,n., Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste.
Sappy,superl., Abounding with sap; full of sap; juicy; succulent.
Saree,n., The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder passed across the bosom over the left shoulder. 
Sargo,n., Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to Sargus, Pomadasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and saragu. 
Saros,n., A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a little short of 10 years. 
Sarpo,n., A large toadfish of the Southern United States and the Gulf of Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus
Sarsa,n., Sarsaparilla.
Sarse,n., A fine sieve; a searce.
Sarum,, A liturgy, or use, put forth about 1087 by St. Osmund, bishop of Sarum, based on Anglo-Saxon and Norman customs. 
Sasin,n., The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, / cervicapra
Sasse,n., A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable. 
Sassy,, The bark of a West African leguminous tree (Erythrophlaeum Guineense, used by the natives as an ordeal poison, and also medicinally; -- called also mancona bark. 
Satan,n., The grand adversary of man; the Devil, or Prince of darkness; the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend. 
Sated,imp. & p. p., of Sate
Satin,n., A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof, which has a glossy surface. 
Satle,v. t. & i., To settle.
Satyr,n., A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness. 
Sauba,, A South American ant (Oecodoma cephalotes
Sauce,n., A composition of condiments and appetizing ingredients eaten with food as a relish; especially, a dressing for meat or fish or for puddings; as, mint sauce; sweet sauce, etc. 
Saucy,superl., Showing impertinent boldness or pertness; transgressing the rules of decorum; treating superiors with contempt; impudent; insolent; as, a saucy fellow. 
Saugh,, Alt. of Sauh
Sauks,n. pl., Same as Sacs.
Sault,n., A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste. Marie. 
Saury,n., A slender marine fish (Scomberesox saurus
Saute,n., An assault.
Saved,imp. & p. p., of Save
Saver,n., One who saves.
Savin,n., Alt. of Savine
Savor,a., That property of a thing which affects the organs of taste or smell; taste and odor; flavor; relish; scent; as, the savor of an orange or a rose; an ill savor. 
Savoy,n., A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major
Sawed,imp., of Saw
Sawer,n., One who saws; a sawyer.
Saxon,n., One of a nation or people who formerly dwelt in the northern part of Germany, and who, with other Teutonic tribes, invaded and conquered England in the fifth and sixth centuries. 
Sayer,n., One who says; an utterer.
Saynd,, p. p. of Senge, to singe. 
Scala,n., A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the humerus.
Scald,v. t., To burn with hot liquid or steam; to pain or injure by contact with, or immersion in, any hot fluid; as, to scald the hand. 
Scale,n., The dish of a balance; hence, the balance itself; an instrument or machine for weighing; as, to turn the scale; -- chiefly used in the plural when applied to the whole instrument or apparatus for weighing. Also used figuratively. 
Scall,a., A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp. 
Scalp,n., A bed of oysters or mussels.
Scaly,a., Covered or abounding with scales; as, a scaly fish. 
Scamp,n., A rascal; a swindler; a rogue.
Scant,superl., Not full, large, or plentiful; scarcely sufficient; less than is wanted for the purpose; scanty; meager; not enough; as, a scant allowance of provisions or water; a scant pattern of cloth for a garment. 
Scape,n., A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem, as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like. 
Scard,n., A shard or fragment.
Scare,v. t., To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm.
Scarf,n., A cormorant.
Scarn,n., Dung.
Scarp,n., A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half as broad as the latter. 
Scary,n., Barren land having only a thin coat of grass.
Scatt,n., Tribute.
Scate,n., See Skate, for the foot. 
Scath,v., Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune.
Scaup,n., A bed or stratum of shellfish; scalp.
Scaur,n., A precipitous bank or rock; a scar.
Scena,n., A scene in an opera.
Scene,n., The structure on which a spectacle or play is exhibited; the part of a theater in which the acting is done, with its adjuncts and decorations; the stage. 
Scent,v. t., To perceive by the olfactory organs; to smell; as, to scent game, as a hound does. 
Scern,v. t., To discern; to perceive.
Schah,n., See Shah.
Scink,n., A skink.
Scion,n., A shoot or sprout of a plant; a sucker.
Sciot,a., Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios
Scire,, A judicial writ, founded upon some record, and requiring the party proceeded against to show cause why the party bringing it should not have advantage of such record, or (as in the case of scire facias to repeal letters patent
Scise,v. i., To cut; to penetrate.
Sclav,n., Alt. of Sclave
Scoat,v. t., To prop; to scotch.
Scobs,n. sing. & pl., Raspings of ivory, hartshorn, metals, or other hard substance. 
Scoff,n., Derision; ridicule; mockery; derisive or mocking expression of scorn, contempt, or reproach. 
Scoke,n., Poke (Phytolacca decandra
Scold,v. i., To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; -- often with at; as, to scold at a servant. 
Scole,n., School.
Scomm,n., A buffoon.
Scone,n., A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat meal. 
Scoop,n., A large ladle; a vessel with a long handle, used for dipping liquids; a utensil for bailing boats. 
Scoot,v. i., To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away.
Scope,n., That at which one aims; the thing or end to which the mind directs its view; that which is purposed to be reached or accomplished; hence, ultimate design, aim, or purpose; intention; drift; object. 
Scops,, Any one of numerous species of small owls of the genus Scops having ear tufts like those of the horned owls, especially the European scops owl (Scops giu
Score,n., A notch or incision; especially, one that is made as a tally mark; hence, a mark, or line, made for the purpose of account. 
Scorn,n., Extreme and lofty contempt; haughty disregard; that disdain which springs from the opinion of the utter meanness and unworthiness of an object.
Scoth,v. t., To clothe or cover up.
Scots,a., Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.
Scour,v. t., To rub hard with something rough, as sand or Bristol brick, especially for the purpose of cleaning; to clean by friction; to make clean or bright; to cleanse from grease, dirt, etc., as articles of dress. 
Scout,n., A swift sailing boat.
Scowl,v. i., To wrinkle the brows, as in frowning or displeasure; to put on a frowning look; to look sour, sullen, severe, or angry. 
Scrag,n., Something thin, lean, or rough; a bony piece; especially, a bony neckpiece of meat; hence, humorously or in contempt, the neck. 
Scrap,v. t., Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a detached, incomplete portion. 
Scrat,v. t., To scratch.
Scraw,n., A turf.
Scray,n., A tern; the sea swallow.
Scree,n., A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky debris. 
Screw,n., A cylinder, or a cylindrical perforation, having a continuous rib, called the thread, winding round it spirally at a constant inclination, so as to leave a continuous spiral groove between one turn and the next, -- used chiefly for producing, when revolved, motion or pressure in the direction of its axis, by the sliding of the threads of the cylinder in the grooves between the threads of the perforation adapted to it, the former being distinguished as the external, or male screw, or, more usually the screw; the latter as the internal, or female screw, or, more usually, the nut. 
Scrid,n., A screed; a shred; a fragment.
Scrim,n., A kind of light cotton or linen fabric, often woven in openwork patterns, -- used for curtains, etc,; -- called also India scrim. 
Scrip,n., A small bag; a wallet; a satchel.
Scrit,n., Writing; document; scroll.
Scrod,n., Alt. of Scrode
Scrog,n., A stunted shrub, bush, or branch. 
Scrow,n., A scroll.
Scrub,v. t., To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate. 
Scudi,pl. , of Scudo
Scudo,n., A silver coin, and money of account, used in Italy and Sicily, varying in value, in different parts, but worth about 4 shillings sterling, or about 96 cents; also, a gold coin worth about the same. 
Scuff,n., The back part of the neck; the scruff.
Sculk,, Alt. of Sculker
Scull,n., The skull.
Sculp,v. t., To sculpture; to carve; to engrave.
Scurf,n., Thin dry scales or scabs upon the body; especially, thin scales exfoliated from the cuticle, particularly of the scalp; dandruff. 
Scuta,n. pl., See Scutum.
Scute,n., A small shield.
Scuta,pl. , of Scutum
Scyle,v. t., To hide; to secrete; to conceal.
Selch,n., A seal.
Seamy,a., Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them. 
Seave,n., A rush.
Seavy,a., Overgrown with rushes.
Sebat,n., The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately corresponding with February. 
Sebic,a., See Sebacic.
Secco,a., Dry.
Seche,v. t. & i., To seek.
Secle,n., A century.
Secre,a., Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret.
Sedan,n., A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan chair. 
Sedge,n., Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs, often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several hundred species. 
Sedgy,a., Overgrown with sedge.
Sedum,n., A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop. 
Seeds,pl. , of Seed
Seedy,superl., Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.
Seely,a., See Silly.
Seepy,a., Alt. of Sipy
Seeth,, imp. of Seethe.
Segar,n., See Cigar.
Segge,n., The hedge sparrow.
Segno,n., A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno. 
Seigh,, obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw.
Seine,n., A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish. 
Seint,n., A girdle.
Seise,v. t., See Seize.
Seity,n., Something peculiar to one's self.
Seize,v. t., To fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp suddenly; to reach and grasp.
Sekes,n., A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities were inclosed.
Selah,n., A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms; by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical performance of the song. 
Selve,a., Self; same.
Semen,n., The seed of plants.
Senge,v. t., To singe.
Senna,n., The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia. (C. acutifolia, C. angustifolia, etc.
Se?or,n., A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman. 
Sense,v. t., A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs
Senza,prep., Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments. 
Sepal,n., A leaf or division of the calyx.
Sepia,n., The common European cuttlefish.
Sepic,a., Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing. 
Sepon,n., See Supawn.
Sepoy,n., A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner. 
Septa,pl. , of Septum
Serai,n., A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house. 
Serge,n., A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for both sexes. 
Serie,n., Series.
Serin,n., A European finch (Serinus hortulanus
Seron,n., Alt. of Seroon
Serow,n., Alt. of Surrow
Serry,v. t., To crowd; to press together.
Serum,n., The watery portion of certain animal fluids, as blood, milk, etc. 
Serve,v. t., To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired assistant, official helper, etc.; specifically, in a religious sense, to obey and worship. 
Serye,n., A series.
Sessa,interj., Hurry; run.
Setae,pl. , of Seta
Setee,n., See 2d Settee.
Seten,, obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat.
Setim,n., See Shittim.
Seton,n., A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed. 
Seven,a., One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week. 
Sever,v. t., To separate, as one from another; to cut off from something; to divide; to part in any way, especially by violence, as by cutting, rending, etc.; as, to sever the head from the body. 
Sewed,imp., of Sew
Sewel,n., A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung up to prevent deer from breaking into a place. 
Sewen,n., A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var. Cambricus
Sewer,n., One who sews, or stitches. 
Sewin,n., Same as Sewen.
Sexed,a., Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as, the sexed condition. 
Sexly,a., Pertaining to sex.
Sexto,n., A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six leaves.
Seyen,, imp. pl. & p. p. of See.
Seynd,, p. p. of Senge, to singe. 
Seynt,n., A gridle. See 1st Seint.
Shack,v. t., To shed or fall, as corn or grain at harvest. 
Shadd,n., Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein. 
Shade,n., Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of something between the space contemplated and the source of light.
Shady,superl., Abounding in shade or shades; overspread with shade; causing shade.
Shaft,n., The slender, smooth stem of an arrow; hence, an arrow. 
Shaik,n., See Sheik.
Shail,v. i., To walk sidewise.
Shake,, obs. p. p. of Shake.
Shook,imp., of Shake
Shake,v., To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate.
Shako,n., A kind of military cap or headdress.
Shaky,superl., Shaking or trembling; as, a shaky spot in a marsh; a shaky hand. 
Shale,n., A shell or husk; a cod or pod.
Shall,v. i. & auxiliary., To owe; to be under obligation for.
Shalm,n., See Shawm.
Shalt,, 2d per. sing. of Shall.
Shaly,a., Resembling shale in structure.
Shama,n., A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura
Shame,n., A painful sensation excited by a consciousness of guilt or impropriety, or of having done something which injures reputation, or of the exposure of that which nature or modesty prompts us to conceal. 
Shank,n., See Chank.
Shape,n., To form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to. 
Shard,n., A plant; chard.
Share,n., The part (usually an iron or steel plate
Shark,v. t. & i., Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas. 
Sharp,superl., Having a very thin edge or fine point; of a nature to cut or pierce easily; not blunt or dull; keen.
Shash,n., The scarf of a turban.
Shave,, obs. p. p. of Shave.
Shawl,n., A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders. 
Shawm,n., A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form. 
Sheaf,n., A sheave.
Sheal,n., Same as Sheeling.
Shore,, of Shear
Shorn,, of Shear
Shear,v. t., To cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth. 
Sheen,v. t., Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny.
Sheep,n. sing. & pl., Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia. 
Sheer,v. i., Bright; clear; pure; unmixed.
Sheet,v. t., In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies. 
Sheik,n., The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade. 
Sheil,n., Alt. of Sheiling
Sheld,a., Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald.
Shelf,v. i., A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament. 
Shell,n., A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal. 
Shent,imp. & p. p., of Shend
Shend,n., To injure, mar, spoil, or harm. 
Shent,, obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth. 
Sheol,n., The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave. 
Sherd,n., A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd. See Shard. 
Shern,n., See Shearn.
Shete,v. t. & i., To shoot.
Sheth,n., The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam, for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called standard, or post. 
Shewn,, p. p. of Shew.
Shiah,n., Same as Shiite.
Shide,n., A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter.
Shied,, imp. & p. p. of Shy.
Shiel,n., A sheeling.
Shift,v. t., To divide; to distribute; to apportion.
Shiff,v. i., To divide; to distribute.
Shift,v. t., The act of shifting.
Shiah,n., A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the Persians belong. They reject the first three caliphs, and consider Ali as being the first and only rightful successor of Mohammed. They do not acknowledge the Sunna, or body of traditions respecting Mohammed, as any part of the law, and on these accounts are treated as heretics by the Sunnites, or orthodox Mohammedans. 
Shilf,n., Straw.
Shill,v. t., To shell.
Shily,adv., See Shyly.
Shone,imp. & p. p., of Shine
Shine,v. i., To emit rays of light; to give light; to beam with steady radiance; to exhibit brightness or splendor; as, the sun shines by day; the moon shines by night. 
Shiny,superl., Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded.
Shire,n., A portion of Great Britain originally under the supervision of an earl; a territorial division, usually identical with a county, but sometimes limited to a smaller district; as, Wiltshire, Yorkshire, Richmondshire, Hallamshire. 
Shirk,v. t., To procure by petty fraud and trickery; to obtain by mean solicitation.
Shirl,a., Shrill.
Shirr,n., A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging. 
Shirt,n., A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under-garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys. 
Shist,, Alt. of Shistose
Shive,n., A slice; as, a shive of bread. 
Shoad,n., A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore which have become separated by the action of water or the weather, and serve to direct in the discovery of mines. 
Shoal,n., A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass. 
Shoar,n., A prop. See 3d Shore.
Shoat,n., A young hog. Same as Shote.
Shock,n., A pile or assemblage of sheaves of grain, as wheat, rye, or the like, set up in a field, the sheaves varying in number from twelve to sixteen; a stook. 
Shode,v. t., The parting of the hair on the head.
Shoes,pl. , of Shoe
Shoon,pl. , of Shoe
Shoer,n., One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on shoes; as, a shoer of horses. 
Shola,n., See Sola.
Shole,n., A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the end of a shore or the like. 
Shone,, imp. & p. p. of Shine.
Shooi,n., The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus
Shook,, imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake.
Shoon,n., pl. of Shoe.
Shoop,, imp. of Shape. Shaped.
Shoot,n., An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course. 
Shore,, imp. of Shear.
Shorl,a., Alt. of Shorlaceous
Shorn,, p. p. of Shear.
Short,superl., Not long; having brief length or linear extension; as, a short distance; a short piece of timber; a short flight. 
Shory,a., Lying near the shore.
Shots,pl. , of Shot
Shote,v. t., A fish resembling the trout.
Shots,n. pl., The refuse of cattle taken from a drove.
Shout,v. i., To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc. 
Shove,v. t., To drive along by the direct and continuous application of strength; to push; especially, to push (a body
Shown,p. p., of Show
Showy,a., Making a show; attracting attention; presenting a marked appearance; ostentatious; gay; gaudy.
Shrag,n., A twig of a tree cut off.
Shram,v. t., To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb.
Shrap,n., Alt. of Shrape
Shred,n., A long, narrow piece cut or torn off; a strip. 
Shrew,a., Wicked; malicious.
Shrow,n., A shrew.
Shrub,n., A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice, and sugar, with spirit to preserve it. 
Shrug,v. t., To draw up or contract (the shoulders
Shuck,n., A shock of grain.
Shude,n., The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate oil cake, or linseed cake. 
Shunt,v. t., To shun; to move from.
Shute,n., Same as Chute, or Shoot. 
Shied,imp. & p. p., of Shy
Shyly,adv., In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve.
Siaga,n., The ahu, or jairou. 
Sibyl,n., A woman supposed to be endowed with a spirit of prophecy.
Sicca,n., A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192 grains. 
Sicer,n., A strong drink; cider.
Siker,a., Sure; certain; trusty.
Sicle,n., A shekel.
Sided,imp. & p. p., of Side
Sider,n., One who takes a side.
Sidle,v. t., To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening. 
Siege,n., A seat; especially, a royal seat; a throne. 
Sieur,n., Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French.
Sieva,n., A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus
Sieve,n., A utensil for separating the finer and coarser parts of a pulverized or granulated substance from each other. It consist of a vessel, usually shallow, with the bottom perforated, or made of hair, wire, or the like, woven in meshes. 
Sifac,n., The white indris of Madagascar. It is regarded by the natives as sacred.
Sight,v. t., The act of seeing; perception of objects by the eye; view; as, to gain sight of land. 
Sigil,n., A seal; a signature.
Sigla,n. pl., The signs, abbreviations, letters, or characters standing for words, shorthand, etc., in ancient manuscripts, or on coins, medals, etc. 
Sigma,n., The Greek letter /, /, or / (English S, or s
Siker,n., Alt. of Sikerness
Sikhs,n. pl., A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in the Punjab at the end of the 15th century. 
Silex,n., Silica, SiO2 as found in nature, constituting quarz, and most sands and sandstones. See Silica, and Silicic. 
Silky,superl., Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; silken; silklike; as, a silky luster. 
Silly,n., Happy; fortunate; blessed.
Silty,a., Full of silt; resembling silt.
Silva,n., The forest trees of a region or country, considered collectively. 
Simar,n., A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.
Simia,n., A Linnaean genus of Quadrumana which included the types of numerous modern genera. By modern writers it is usually restricted to the genus which includes the orang-outang.
Since,adv., From a definite past time until now; as, he went a month ago, and I have not seen him since. 
Sinch,n., A saddle girth made of leather, canvas, woven horsehair, or woven grass. 
Sinew,n., A tendon or tendonous tissue. See Tendon.
Singe,v. t., To burn slightly or superficially; to burn the surface of; to burn the ends or outside of; as, to singe the hair or the skin. 
Sinto,, Alt. of Sintoist
Sintu,, Alt. of Sintoist
Sinus,pl. , of Sinus
Sioux,n. sing. & pl., See Dakotas.
Sipid,a., Having a taste or flavorl savory; sapid.
Sired,imp. & p. p., of Sire
Siren,n., One of three sea nymphs, -- or, according to some writers, of two, -- said to frequent an island near the coast of Italy, and to sing with such sweetness that they lured mariners to destruction. 
Siroc,n., See Sirocco.
Sirup,n., Alt. of Syrup
Syrup,n., A thick and viscid liquid made from the juice of fruits, herbs, etc., boiled with sugar. 
Sisal,, Alt. of Sisal hemp
Sisel,n., The suslik.
Siser,n., Cider. See Sicer.
Sited,a., Having a site; situated.
Sithe,n., Time.
Situs,n., The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also, the position of the parts. 
Sivan,n., The third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year; -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of June.
Siver,v. i., To simmer.
Siwin,n., Same as Sewen.
Sixth,a., First after the fifth; next in order after the fifth.
Sixty,a., Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore.
Sizar,n., One of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge (Eng.
Sized,imp. & p. p., of Size
Sizel,n., Same as Scissel, 2. 
Sizer,n., See Sizar.
Skain,n., See Skein.
Skald,n., See 5th Scald.
Skall,v. t., To scale; to mount.
Skare,a., Wild; timid; shy.
Skart,n., The shag.
Skate,n., A metallic runner with a frame shaped to fit the sole of a shoe, -- made to be fastened under the foot, and used for moving rapidly on ice. 
Skean,n., A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland. [Variously spelt.] 
Skeed,n., See Skid.
Skeel,n., A shallow wooden vessel for holding milk or cream.
Skeet,n., A scoop with a long handle, used to wash the sides of a vessel, and formerly to wet the sails or deck. 
Skein,n., A quantity of yarn, thread, or the like, put up together, after it is taken from the reel, -- usually tied in a sort of knot. 
Skelp,n., A blow; a smart stroke.
Skene,n., See Skean.
Skied,, imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t. 
Skiey,a., See Skyey.
Skiff,n., A small, light boat. 
Skill,n., Discrimination; judgment; propriety; reason; cause.
Skrim,n., Scum; refuse.
Skimp,v. t., To slight; to do carelessly; to scamp.
Skink,n., Any one of numerous species of regularly scaled harmless lizards of the family Scincidae, common in the warmer parts of all the continents. 
Skirl,v. t.& i., To utter in a shrill tone; to scream.
Skirr,v. t., To ramble over in order to clear; to scour.
Skirt,n., The lower and loose part of a coat, dress, or other like garment; the part below the waist; as, the skirt of a coat, a dress, or a mantle. 
Skive,n., The iron lap used by diamond polishers in finishing the facets of the gem.
Skout,n., A guillemot.
Skulk,v. i., To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk. 
Skull,n., A school, company, or shoal. 
Skunk,n., Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores of the genus Mephitis and allied genera. They have two glands near the anus, secreting an extremely fetid liquid, which the animal ejects at pleasure as a means of defense. 
Skute,n., A boat; a small vessel.
Skies,pl. , of Sky
Skied,imp. & p. p., of Sky
Skyed,, of Sky
Skyey,a., Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky.
Slack,n., Small coal; also, coal dust; culm. 
Slade,n., A little dell or valley; a flat piece of low, moist ground. 
Slaie,n., A weaver's reed; a sley.
Slake,a., To allay; to quench; to extinguish; as, to slake thirst. 
Slang,, imp. of Sling. Slung.
Slank,, imp. & p. p. of Slink.
Slant,v. i., To be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie obliquely; to slope.
Slape,a., Slippery; smooth; crafty; hypocritical.
Slash,v. t., To cut by striking violently and at random; to cut in long slits.
Slate,v. t., An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist.
Slatt,n., A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry.
Slaty,a., Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties, of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture. 
Slavs,pl. , of Slav
Slave,n., See Slav.
Slain,p. p., of Slay
Slazy,a., See Sleazy.
Sleek,superl., Having an even, smooth surface; smooth; hence, glossy; as, sleek hair. 
Sleep,, imp. of Sleep. Slept.
Slept,imp. & p. p., of Sleep
Sleep,v. i., To take rest by a suspension of the voluntary exercise of the powers of the body and mind, and an apathy of the organs of sense; to slumber. 
Sleer,n., A slayer.
Sleet,n., The part of a mortar extending from the chamber to the trunnions.
Sleid,v. t., To sley, or prepare for use in the weaver's sley, or slaie. 
Slent,n. & v., See Slant.
Slept,, imp. & p. p. of Sleep.
Slice,v. t., A thin, broad piece cut off; as, a slice of bacon; a slice of cheese; a slice of bread. 
Slich,n., Alt. of Slick
Slick,n., See Schlich.
Slide,v. t., To move along the surface of any body by slipping, or without walking or rolling; to slip; to glide; as, snow slides down the mountain's side. 
Slily,adv., See Slyly.
Slime,n., Soft, moist earth or clay, having an adhesive quality; viscous mud. 
Slimy,superl., Of or pertaining to slime; resembling slime; of the nature of slime; viscous; glutinous; also, covered or daubed with slime; yielding, or abounding in, slime. 
Sling,v. t., An instrument for throwing stones or other missiles, consisting of a short strap with two strings fastened to its ends, or with a string fastened to one end and a light stick to the other. The missile being lodged in a hole in the strap, the ends of the string are taken in the hand, and the whole whirled rapidly round until, by loosing one end, the missile is let fly with centrifugal force. 
Slung,imp., of Sling
Slang,, of Sling
Slung,p. p., of Sling
Sling,v. t., To throw with a sling.
Slunk,imp., of Slink
Slank,, of Slink
Slunk,p. p., of Slink
Slink,a., To creep away meanly; to steal away; to sneak.
Slish,n., A cut; as, slish and slash. 
Slive,v. i., To sneak.
Sloam,n., A layer of earth between coal seams.
Sloat,n., A narrow piece of timber which holds together large pieces; a slat; as, the sloats of a cart. 
Slock,v. t., Alt. of Slocken
Sloke,n., See Sloakan.
Sloom,n., Slumber.
Sloop,n., A vessel having one mast and fore-and-aft rig, consisting of a boom-and-gaff mainsail, jibs, staysail, and gaff topsail. The typical sloop has a fixed bowsprit, topmast, and standing rigging, while those of a cutter are capable of being readily shifted. The sloop usually carries a centerboard, and depends for stability upon breadth of beam rather than depth of keel. The two types have rapidly approximated since 1880. One radical distinction is that a slop may carry a centerboard. See Cutter, and Illustration in Appendix. 
Slope,v. i., An oblique direction; a line or direction including from a horizontal line or direction; also, sometimes, an inclination, as of one line or surface to another. 
Slopy,a., Sloping; inclined.
Slosh,, Alt. of Sloshy
Sloth,n., Slowness; tardiness.
Slowh,, imp. of Slee,to slay. 
Slows,n., Milk sickness.
Sludy,a., Miry; slushy.
Slued,imp. & p. p., of Slue
Slugs,n. pl., Half-roasted ore.
Slump,n., The gross amount; the mass; the lump.
Slung,, imp. & p. p. of Sling.
Slunk,, imp. & p. p. of Slink.
Slush,n., Soft mud.
Slyly,adv., In a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily.
Slype,n., A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transept and chapter house of a monastery. 
Smack,n., A small sailing vessel, commonly rigged as a sloop, used chiefly in the coasting and fishing trade. 
Small,superl., Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind; little in quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in dimension; not great; not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a small river. 
Smalt,v. t., A deep blue pigment or coloring material used in various arts. It is a vitreous substance made of cobalt, potash, and calcined quartz fused, and reduced to a powder. 
Smart,v. i., To feel a lively, pungent local pain; -- said of some part of the body as the seat of irritation; as, my finger smarts; these wounds smart. 
Smash,v. t., To break in pieces by violence; to dash to pieces; to crush.
Smear,n., To overspread with anything unctuous, viscous, or adhesive; to daub; as, to smear anything with oil. 
Smeir,n., A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to an earthenware glaze. 
Smelt,, of Smell
Smell,n., To perceive by the olfactory nerves, or organs of smell; to have a sensation of, excited through the nasal organs when affected by the appropriate materials or qualities; to obtain the scent of; as, to smell a rose; to smell perfumes. 
Smelt,, imp. & p. p. of Smell.
Smerk,n. & v., See Smirk.
Smift,n., A match for firing a charge of powder, as in blasting; a fuse. 
Smile,v. i., To express amusement, pleasure, moderate joy, or love and kindness, by the features of the face; to laugh silently. 
Smilt,v. i., To melt.
Smirk,v. i., To smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with affected complaisance; to simper.
Smote,imp., of Smite
Smite,v. t., To strike; to inflict a blow upon with the hand, or with any instrument held in the hand, or with a missile thrown by the hand; as, to smite with the fist, with a rod, sword, spear, or stone. 
Smith,n., One who forges with the hammer; one who works in metals; as, a blacksmith, goldsmith, silversmith, and the like. 
Smitt,v. t., Fine clay or ocher made up into balls, used for marking sheep. 
Smock,n., A woman's under-garment; a shift; a chemise.
Smoke,n., The visible exhalation, vapor, or substance that escapes, or expelled, from a burning body, especially from burning vegetable matter, as wood, coal, peat, or the like. 
Smoky,superl., Emitting smoke, esp. in large quantities or in an offensive manner; fumid; as, smoky fires. 
Smolt,n., A young salmon two or three years old, when it has acquired its silvery color. 
Smoor,v. t., To suffocate or smother.
Smore,v. t., To smother. See Smoor.
Smote,, imp. (/ rare p. p.
Snack,v. t., A share; a part or portion; -- obsolete, except in the colloquial phrase, to go snacks, i. e., to share. 
Snail,n., Any one of numerous species of terrestrial air-breathing gastropods belonging to the genus Helix and many allied genera of the family Helicidae. They are abundant in nearly all parts of the world except the arctic regions, and feed almost entirely on vegetation; a land snail. 
Snake,n., Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent. 
Snaky,a., Of or pertaining to a snake or snakes; resembling a snake; serpentine; winding.
Snape,v. t., To bevel the end of a timber to fit against an inclined surface.
Snare,n., A contrivance, often consisting of a noose of cord, or the like, by which a bird or other animal may be entangled and caught; a trap; a gin. 
Snarl,v. t., To form raised work upon the outer surface of (thin metal ware
Snary,a., Resembling, or consisting of, snares; entangling; insidious. 
Snast,v. t., The snuff, or burnt wick, of a candle. 
Snead,n., A snath.
Sneak,v. i., To creep or steal (away or about
Sneap,v. t., To check; to reprimand; to rebuke; to chide.
Sneck,v. t., To fasten by a hatch; to latch, as a door. 
Sneed,n., See Snath.
Sneer,v. i., To show contempt by turning up the nose, or by a particular facial expression. 
Snell,a., Active; brisk; nimble; quick; sharp.
Snick,n., A small cut or mark.
Snide,a., Tricky; deceptive; contemptible; as, a snide lawyer; snide goods. 
Snift,, of Sniff
Sniff,v. t., To draw air audibly up the nose; to snuff; -- sometimes done as a gesture of suspicion, offense, or contempt. 
Snift,v. i., To snort.
Snigg,n., A small eel.
Snipe,n., Any one of numerous species of limicoline game birds of the family Scolopacidae, having a long, slender, nearly straight beak. 
Snypy,a., Like a snipe.
Snite,n., A snipe.
Snoff,n., A short candle end used for igniting a fuse.
Snood,n., The fillet which binds the hair of a young unmarried woman, and is emblematic of her maiden character. 
Snook,v. i., To lurk; to lie in ambush.
Snore,v. i., To breathe with a rough, hoarse, nasal voice in sleep. 
Snort,v. i., To force the air with violence through the nose, so as to make a noise, as do high-spirited horsed in prancing and play. 
Snout,n., The long, projecting nose of a beast, as of swine. 
Snowl,n., The hooded merganser.
Snowy,a., White like snow.
Snuff,v. t., The part of a candle wick charred by the flame, whether burning or not. 
Soaky,a., Full of moisture; wet; soppy.
Soapy,superl., Resembling soap; having the qualities of, or feeling like, soap; soft and smooth. 
Soave,a., Sweet.
Sober,superl., Temperate in the use of spirituous liquors; habitually temperate; as, a sober man. 
Socky,a., Wet; soaky.
Socle,n., A plain block or plinth forming a low pedestal; any base; especially, the base of a statue, column, or the like. See Plinth. 
Soddy,a., Consisting of sod; covered with sod; turfy.
Soder,n. & v. t., See Solder.
Sodic,a., Of or pertaining to sodium; containing sodium.
Sofas,pl. , of Sofa
Sofis,pl. , of Sofi
Softa,n., Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school. 
Soggy,superl., Filled with water; soft with moisture; sodden; soaked; wet; as, soggy land or timber. 
Soily,a., Dirty; soiled.
Soken,n., A toll. See Soc, n., 2. 
Solan,, The common gannet.
Solar,a., A loft or upper chamber; a garret room.
Solas,n., Solace.
Soldi,pl. , of Soldo
Soldo,n., A small Italian coin worth a sou or a cent; the twentieth part of a lira.
Soled,imp. & p. p., of Sole
Solen,n., A cradle, as for a broken limb. See Cradle, 6. 
Soler,n., Alt. of Solere
Solid,a., Having the constituent parts so compact, or so firmly adhering, as to resist the impression or penetration of other bodies; having a fixed form; hard; firm; compact; -- opposed to fluid and liquid or to plastic, like clay, or to incompact, like sand. 
Solos,pl. , of Solo
Solon,n., A celebrated Athenian lawmaker, born about 638 b. c.; hence, a legislator; a publicist; -- often used ironically. 
Solus,fem. a., Alt. of Sola
Solve,v. t., To explain; to resolve; to unfold; to clear up (what is obscure or difficult to be understood
Somaj,n., Alt. of Samaj
Samaj,n., A society; a congregation; a worshiping assembly, or church, esp. of the Brahmo-somaj. 
Somal,n., A Hamitic people of East Central Africa.
Somne,v. t., To summon.
Soncy,a., Alt. of Sonsy
Sonsy,a., Lucky; fortunate; thriving; plump.
Sonde,v. t., That which is sent; a message or messenger; hence, also, a visitation of providence; an affliction or trial. 
Sonsy,a., See Soncy.
Soord,n., Skin of bacon.
Soote,a., Sweet.
Sooth,superl., True; faithful; trustworthy.
Sooty,superl., Of or pertaining to soot; producing soot; soiled by soot.
Sophi,n., See Sufi.
Sopor,n., Profound sleep from which a person can be roused only with difficulty.
Soppy,a., Soaked or saturated with liquid or moisture; very wet or sloppy.
Sopra,adv., Above; before; over; upon.
Soree,n., Same as Sora.
Sorel,n., A young buck in the third year. See the Note under Buck.
Sorex,n., A genus of small Insectivora, including the common shrews. 
Sorgo,n., Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum.
Sorry,a., Grieved for the loss of some good; pained for some evil; feeling regret; -- now generally used to express light grief or affliction, but formerly often used to express deeper feeling. 
Sorus,n., One of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the back of the fronds of ferns. 
Sorwe,n. & v., Sorrow.
Sotel,a., Alt. of Sotil
Sotil,a., Subtile.
Sothe,a., Sooth.
Sotto,, With a restrained voice or moderate force; in an undertone.
Souce,n., See 1st Souse.
Sough,n., A sow.
Souke,v. t. & i., To suck.
Sound,n., The air bladder of a fish; as, cod sounds are an esteemed article of food. 
Soune,v. t. & i., To sound.
Soupy,a., Resembling soup; souplike.
Sours,n., Source. See Source.
Souse,n., A corrupt form of Sou.
South,n., That one of the four cardinal points directly opposite to the north; the region or direction to the right or direction to the right of a person who faces the east.
Sowed,imp., of Sow
Sowar,n., In India, a mounted soldier. 
Sowce,n. & v., See Souse.
Sower,n., One who, or that which, sows. 
Sowle,v. t., To pull by the ears; to drag about.
Sowne,v. t. & i., To sound.
Sowse,n. & v., See Souse.
Soyle,v. t., To solve, to clear up; as, to soyl all other texts. 
Spaad,n., A kind of spar; earth flax, or amianthus. 
Space,n., Extension, considered independently of anything which it may contain; that which makes extended objects conceivable and possible. 
Spade,n., A hart or stag three years old.
Spado,n., Same as Spade, 2. 
Spaed,imp. & p. p., of Spae
Spahi,n., Alt. of Spahee
Spaid,n., See 1st Spade.
Spake,, imp. of Speak.
Spaky,a., Specky.
Spale,n., A lath; a shaving or chip, as of wood or stone. 
Spall,n., The shoulder.
Spalt,n., Spelter.
Spane,v. t., To wean.
Spang,v. t., To spangle.
Spank,v. t., To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap. 
Spare,a., To use frugally or stintingly, as that which is scarce or valuable; to retain or keep unused; to save. 
Spark,n., A small particle of fire or ignited substance which is emitted by a body in combustion.
Spary,a., Sparing; parsimonious.
Spasm,v. t., An involuntary and unnatural contraction of one or more muscles or muscular fibers.
Spate,n., A river flood; an overflow or inundation.
Spawl,n., A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall. 
Spawn,v. t., To produce or deposit (eggs
Spoke,imp., of Speak
Spake,, of Speak
Spoke,, of Speak
Speak,v. i., To utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak. 
Spear,n., A long, pointed weapon, used in war and hunting, by thrusting or throwing; a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp head or blade; a lance. 
Spece,n., Species; kind.
Speck,n., The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus. 
Speed,n., Prosperity in an undertaking; favorable issue; success.
Speer,n., A sphere.
Speet,v. t., To stab.
Speir,v. i., To ask. See Spere.
Speke,v. i. & t., To speak.
Spelk,n., A small stick or rod used as a spike in thatching; a splinter.
Spell,n., A spelk, or splinter. 
Spelt,, of Spell
Spell,v. t., To tell; to relate; to teach.
Spelt,, imp. & p. p. of Spell. Spelled.
Spent,imp. & p. p., of Spend
Spend,v. t., To weigh or lay out; to dispose of; to part with; as, to spend money for clothing. 
Spent,a., Exhausted; worn out; having lost energy or motive force.
Spere,v. i., To search; to pry; to ask; to inquire.
Sperm,n., The male fecundating fluid; semen. See Semen.
Spewy,a., Wet; soggy; inclined to spew.
Sphex,n., Any one of numerous species of sand wasps of the genus Sphex and allied genera. These wasps have the abdomen attached to the thorax by a slender pedicel. See Illust. of Sand wasp, under Sand. 
Spial,n., A spy; a scout.
Spica,n., A kind of bandage passing, by successive turns and crosses, from an extremity to the trunk; -- so called from its resemblance to a spike of a barley. 
Spice,n., Species; kind.
Spick,n., A spike or nail.
Spicy,superl., Flavored with, or containing, spice or spices; fragrant; aromatic; as, spicy breezes. 
Spied,, imp. & p. p. of Spy.
Spike,n., A sort of very large nail; also, a piece of pointed iron set with points upward or outward. 
Spiky,a., Like a spike; spikelike.
Spile,n., A small plug or wooden pin, used to stop a vent, as in a cask. 
Spill,n., A bit of wood split off; a splinter.
Spilt,imp. & p. p., of Spill
Spill,v. t., To cover or decorate with slender pieces of wood, metal, ivory, etc.; to inlay. 
Spilt,, of Spill
Spill,v. t., To destroy; to kill; to put an end to.
Spilt,, imp. & p. p. of Spill. Spilled.
Spina,, A congenital malformation in which the spinal column is cleft at its lower portion, and the membranes of the spinal cord project as an elastic swelling from the gap thus formed. 
Spine,n., A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn.
Spink,n., The chaffinch.
Spiny,a., Full of spines; thorny; as, a spiny tree. 
Spire,v. i., To breathe.
Spirt,v. & n., Same as Spurt.
Spiry,a., Of a spiral form; wreathed; curled; serpentine.
Spiss,a., Thick; crowded; compact; dense.
Spite,n., Ill-will or hatred toward another, accompanied with the disposition to irritate, annoy, or thwart; petty malice; grudge; rancor; despite. 
Spitz,, A breed of dogs having erect ears and long silky hair, usually white; -- called also Pomeranian dog, and louploup. 
Splay,v. t., To display; to spread.
Split,imp. & p. p., of Split
Spoil,v. t., To plunder; to strip by violence; to pillage; to rob; -- with of before the name of the thing taken; as, to spoil one of his goods or possession. 
Spoke,, imp. of Speak.
Spong,n., An irregular, narrow, projecting part of a field. 
Sponk,n., See Spunk.
Spook,n., A spirit; a ghost; an apparition; a hobgoblin.
Spool,n., A piece of cane or red with a knot at each end, or a hollow cylinder of wood with a ridge at each end, used to wind thread or yarn upon. 
Spoom,v. i., To be driven steadily and swiftly, as before a strong wind; to be driven before the wind without any sail, or with only a part of the sails spread; to scud under bare poles. 
Spoon,v. i., See Spoom.
Spoor,n., The track or trail of any wild animal; as, the spoor of an elephant; -- used originally by travelers in South Africa. 
Spore,n., One of the minute grains in flowerless plants, which are analogous to seeds, as serving to reproduce the species. 
Sport,n., That which diverts, and makes mirth; pastime; amusement. 
Spout,v. t., To throw out forcibly and abudantly, as liquids through an office or a pipe; to eject in a jet; as, an elephant spouts water from his trunk. 
Sprad,, p. p. of Spread.
Sprag,n., A young salmon.
Sprat,n., A small European herring (Clupea sprattus
Spray,n., A small shoot or branch; a twig.
Spree,n., A merry frolic; especially, a drinking frolic; a carousal. 
Sprew,n., Thrush.
Sprig,n., A small shoot or twig of a tree or other plant; a spray; as, a sprig of laurel or of parsley. 
Sprit,v. i., To throw out with force from a narrow orifice; to eject; to spurt out.
Sprod,n., A salmon in its second year.
Sprue,n., Strictly, the hole through which melted metal is poured into the gate, and thence into the mold. 
Sprug,v. t., To make smart.
Spuke,n., See Spook.
Spume,n., Frothy matter raised on liquids by boiling, effervescence, or agitation; froth; foam; scum. 
Spumy,a., Consisting of, containing, or covered with, froth, scum, or foam; frothy; foamy. 
Spunk,n., Wood that readily takes fire; touchwood; also, a kind of tinder made from a species of fungus; punk; amadou. 
Spurn,v. t., To drive back or away, as with the foot; to kick. 
Spurt,v. i., To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream or jet; to spirt. 
Sourt,n., A sudden or violent ejection or gushing of a liquid, as of water from a tube, orifice, or other confined place, or of blood from a wound; a jet; a spirt. 
Spurt,n., A sudden and energetic effort, as in an emergency; an increased exertion for a brief space. 
Spute,v. t., To dispute; to discuss.
Sputa,pl. , of Sputum
Spied,imp. & p. p., of Spy
Spies,pl. , of Spy
Spyne,n., See Pinnace, n., 1 (a
Squab,a., Fat; thick; plump; bulky.
Squad,n., A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other purposes. 
Squat,n., The angel fish (Squatina angelus
Squaw,n., A female; a woman; -- in the language of Indian tribes of the Algonquin family, correlative of sannup. 
Squib,a., A little pipe, or hollow cylinder of paper, filled with powder or combustible matter, to be thrown into the air while burning, so as to burst there with a crack. 
Squid,n., Any one of numerous species of ten-armed cephalopods having a long, tapered body, and a caudal fin on each side; especially, any species of Loligo, Ommastrephes, and related genera. See Calamary, Decacerata, Dibranchiata. 
Souir,v. t., To throw with a jerk; to throw edge foremost.
Stack,a., A large pile of hay, grain, straw, or the like, usually of a nearly conical form, but sometimes rectangular or oblong, contracted at the top to a point or ridge, and sometimes covered with thatch. 
Stade,n., A stadium.
Staff,n., A long piece of wood; a stick; the long handle of an instrument or weapon; a pole or srick, used for many purposes; as, a surveyor's staff; the staff of a spear or pike. 
Stage,n., A floor or story of a house.
Stail,, imp. & p. p. of Stay.
Staid,a., Sober; grave; steady; sedate; composed; regular; not wild, volatile, or fanciful. 
Stail,n., A handle, as of a mop; a stale. 
Stain,v. t., To discolor by the application of foreign matter; to make foul; to spot; as, to stain the hand with dye; armor stained with blood. 
Stair,n., One step of a series for ascending or descending to a different level; -- commonly applied to those within a building.
Stake,v. t., A piece of wood, usually long and slender, pointed at one end so as to be easily driven into the ground as a support or stay; as, a stake to support vines, fences, hedges, etc. 
Stale,n., The stock or handle of anything; as, the stale of a rake. 
Stalk,n., The stem or main axis of a plant; as, a stalk of wheat, rye, or oats; the stalks of maize or hemp. 
Stall,v. i., A stand; a station; a fixed spot; hence, the stand or place where a horse or an ox kept and fed; the division of a stable, or the compartment, for one horse, ox, or other animal. 
Stamp,v. i., To strike beat, or press forcibly with the bottom of the foot, or by thrusting the foot downward. 
Stood,imp. & p. p., of Stand
Stand,n., To be at rest in an erect position; to be fixed in an upright or firm position
Stane,n., A stone.
Stang,, imp. of Sting.
Stank,a., Weak; worn out.
Stant,3d pers. sing. pres., Alt. of Stont
Stont,3d pers. sing. pres., Stands.
Stare,n., The starling.
Starf,imp., Starved.
Stark,n., Stiff; rigid.
Starn,n., The European starling.
Start,v. i., To leap; to jump.
State,n., The circumstances or condition of a being or thing at any given time.
Stave,n., One of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates, placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a vessel or structure; esp., one of the strips which form the sides of a cask, a pail, etc. 
Stove,, of Stave
Stave,n., To break in a stave or the staves of; to break a hole in; to burst; -- often with in; as, to stave a cask; to stave in a boat. 
Staid,, of Stay
Stead,n., Place, or spot, in general. 
Steak,v. t., A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak; pork steak; turtle steak. 
Steal,n., A handle; a stale, or stele. 
Stole,imp., of Steal
Steal,v. t., To take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal goods of another. 
Steam,n., The elastic, aeriform fluid into which water is converted when heated to the boiling points; water in the state of vapor. 
Stean,n. & v., See Steen.
Steed,n., A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used chiefly in poetry or stately prose. 
Steek,v. t., Alt. of Steik
Steik,v. t., To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew; also, to fix; to fasten. 
Steel,n., A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon
Steem,n. & v., See Esteem.
Steen,n., A vessel of clay or stone.
Steep,a., Bright; glittering; fiery.
Steer,a., A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a castrated taurine male from two to four years old. See the Note under Ox. 
Steik,v. t., See Steek.
Stein,n. & v., See Steen.
Stela,n., A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc. 
Stele,n., Same as Stela.
Stell,v. t., To place or fix firmly or permanently.
Steem,v. i., To gleam.
Stent,obs. p. p., of Stent
Stere,n., A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1/ cubic yards. 
Stern,n., The black tern.
Stert,p. p., Started.
Steve,v. t., To pack or stow, as cargo in a ship's hold. See Steeve. 
Stian,n., A sty on the eye. See Styan.
Stich,n., A verse, of whatever measure or number of feet. 
Stick,v. t., A small shoot, or branch, separated, as by a cutting, from a tree or shrub; also, any stem or branch of a tree, of any size, cut for fuel or timber. 
Stuck,imp. & p. p., of Stick
Stick,n., To penetrate with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to stab; hence, to kill by piercing; as, to stick a beast. 
Stiff,superl., Not easily bent; not flexible or pliant; not limber or flaccid; rigid; firm; as, stiff wood, paper, joints. 
Stike,n., Stanza.
Stile,n., A pin set on the face of a dial, to cast a shadow; a style. See Style. 
Still,adv., Motionless; at rest; quiet; as, to stand still; to lie or sit still. 
Stilt,n., A pole, or piece of wood, constructed with a step or loop to raise the foot above the ground in walking. It is sometimes lashed to the leg, and sometimes prolonged upward so as to be steadied by the hand or arm. 
Stime,n., A slight gleam or glimmer; a glimpse.
Sting,v. t., Any sharp organ of offense and defense, especially when connected with a poison gland, and adapted to inflict a wound by piercing; as the caudal sting of a scorpion. The sting of a bee or wasp is a modified ovipositor. The caudal sting, or spine, of a sting ray is a modified dorsal fin ray. The term is sometimes applied to the fang of a serpent. See Illust. of Scorpion. 
Stung,imp. & p. p., of Sting
Stang,, of Sting
Sting,v. t., To pierce or wound with a sting; as, bees will sting an animal that irritates them; the nettles stung his hands. 
Stunk,imp. & p. p., of Stink
Stank,, of Stink
Stink,v. i., To emit a strong, offensive smell; to send out a disgusting odor. 
Stint,n., Any one of several species of small sandpipers, as the sanderling of Europe and America, the dunlin, the little stint of India (Tringa minuta
Stipe,n., The stalk or petiole of a frond, as of a fern. 
Stirk,n., A young bullock or heifer.
Stirp,n., Stock; race; family.
Stirt,v. i., Started; leaped.
Stith,a., Strong; stiff; rigid.
Stive,v. t., To stuff; to crowd; to fill full; hence, to make hot and close; to render stifling. 
Stoak,v. t., To stop; to choke.
Stoat,n., The ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but with a black tip to the tail. The name is sometimes applied also to other brown weasels. 
Stock,n., The stem, or main body, of a tree or plant; the fixed, strong, firm part; the trunk. 
Stoic,n., A disciple of the philosopher Zeno; one of a Greek sect which held that men should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and should submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity, by which all things are governed. 
Stoke,v. t., To stick; to thrust; to stab.
Stola,n., A long garment, descending to the ankles, worn by Roman women. 
Stole,, imp. of Steal.
Stoma,n., One of the minute apertures between the cells in many serous membranes.
Stomp,v. i., To stamp with the foot.
Stond,n., Stop; halt; hindrance.
Stone,n., Concreted earthy or mineral matter; also, any particular mass of such matter; as, a house built of stone; the boy threw a stone; pebbles are rounded stones. 
Stont,, 3d pers. sing. present of Stand.
Stony,superl., Of or pertaining to stone, consisting of, or abounding in, stone or stones; resembling stone; hard; as, a stony tower; a stony cave; stony ground; a stony crust. 
Stood,, imp. & p. p. of Stand.
Stook,n., A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; in England, twelve sheaves. 
Stool,n., A plant from which layers are propagated by bending its branches into the soil.
Stoom,v. t., To stum.
Stoop,n., Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York. Afterward, an out-of-door flight of stairs of from seven to fourteen steps, with platform and parapets, leading to an entrance door some distance above the street; the French perron. Hence, any porch, platform, entrance stairway, or small veranda, at a house door. 
Stoor,v. i., To rise in clouds, as dust. 
Stope,v. i., A horizontal working forming one of a series, the working faces of which present the appearance of a flight of steps. 
Store,v. t., That which is accumulated, or massed together; a source from which supplies may be drawn; hence, an abundance; a great quantity, or a great number. 
Stork,n., Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family Ciconidae, having long legs and a long, pointed bill. They are found both in the Old World and in America, and belong to Ciconia and several allied genera. The European white stork (Ciconia alba
Storm,n., A violent disturbance of the atmosphere, attended by wind, rain, snow, hail, or thunder and lightning; hence, often, a heavy fall of rain, snow, or hail, whether accompanied with wind or not. 
Story,v. t., A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors. Also, a horizontal division of a building's exterior considered architecturally, which need not correspond exactly with the stories within. 
Stote,n., See Stoat.
Stoup,n., A flagon; a vessel or measure for liquids.
Stour,n., A battle or tumult; encounter; combat; disturbance; passion.
Stout,superl., Strong; lusty; vigorous; robust; sinewy; muscular; hence, firm; resolute; dauntless. 
Stove,, imp. of Stave.
Stram,v. t., To spring or recoil with violence.
Strap,n., A long, narrow, pliable strip of leather, cloth, or the like; specifically, a strip of thick leather used in flogging. 
Straw,v. t., To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow. 
Stray,a., To wander, as from a direct course; to deviate, or go out of the way. 
Stree,n., Straw.
Strew,v. t., To scatter; to spread by scattering; to cast or to throw loosely apart; -- used of solids, separated or separable into parts or particles; as, to strew seed in beds; to strew sand on or over a floor; to strew flowers over a grave. 
Stria,n., A minute groove, or channel; a threadlike line, as of color; a narrow structural band or line; a striation; as, the striae, or groovings, produced on a rock by a glacier passing over it; the striae on the surface of a shell; a stria of nervous matter in the brain. 
Strid,n., A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which looks as if it might be crossed at a stride. 
Strip,v. t., To deprive; to bereave; to make destitute; to plunder; especially, to deprive of a covering; to skin; to peel; as, to strip a man of his possession, his rights, his privileges, his reputation; to strip one of his clothes; to strip a beast of his skin; to strip a tree of its bark. 
Strix,n., One of the flutings of a column.
Strop,n., A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3. 
Strow,v. t., Same as Strew.
Stroy,v. i., To destroy.
Strum,v. t. & i., To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano. 
Strut,v. t., To swell; to bulge out.
Stuck,, imp. & p. p. of Stick.
Study,v. i., A setting of the mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence, application of mind to books, arts, or science, or to any subject, for the purpose of acquiring knowledge. 
Stufa,n., A jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth.
Stuff,v. t., Material which is to be worked up in any process of manufacture.
Stuke,n., Stucco.
Stull,n., A framework of timber covered with boards to support rubbish; also, a framework of boards to protect miners from falling stones. 
Stulm,n., A shaft or gallery to drain a mine.
Stulp,n., A short, stout post used for any purpose, a to mark a boundary. 
Stump,n., The part of a tree or plant remaining in the earth after the stem or trunk is cut off; the stub.
Stung,, imp. & p. p. of Sting.
Stunk,, imp. & p. p. of Stink.
Stunt,v. t., To hinder from growing to the natural size; to prevent the growth of; to stint, to dwarf; as, to stunt a child; to stunt a plant. 
Stupa,n., A mound or monument commemorative of Buddha.
Stupe,v. t., Cloth or flax dipped in warm water or medicaments and applied to a hurt or sore.
Sturb,v. t., To disturb.
Sturk,n., See Stirk.
Sturt,v. i., To vex; to annoy; to startle.
Sties,pl. , of Sty
Stied,imp. & p. p., of Sty
Styan,n., See Sty, a boil. 
Styca,n., An anglo-Saxon copper coin of the lowest value, being worth half a farthing. 
Style,v. t., An instrument used by the ancients in writing on tablets covered with wax, having one of its ends sharp, and the other blunt, and somewhat expanded, for the purpose of making erasures by smoothing the wax. 
Suade,v. t., To persuade.
Suage,v. t., To assuage.
Suant,a., Spread equally over the surface; uniform; even.
Suave,a., Sweet; pleasant; delightful; gracious or agreeable in manner; bland.
Succi,pl. , of Succus
Sucre,n., A silver coin of Ecuador, worth 68 cents. 
Sudra,n., The lowest of the four great castes among the Hindoos. See Caste.
Suing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sue
Suent,a., Uniformly or evenly distributed or spread; even; smooth. See Suant.
Suety,a., Consisting of, or resembling, suet; as, a suety substance. 
Sugar,n., A sweet white (or brownish yellow
Suine,n., A mixture of oleomargarine with lard or other fatty ingredients. It is used as a substitute for butter. See Butterine.
Suing,n., The process of soaking through anything.
Suint,n., A peculiar substance obtained from the wool of sheep, consisting largely of potash mixed with fatty and earthy matters. It is used as a source of potash and also for the manufacture of gas. 
Suist,n., One who seeks for things which gratify merely himself; a selfish person; a selfist.
Suite,n., A retinue or company of attendants, as of a distinguished personage; as, the suite of an ambassador. See Suit, n., 5. 
Sulci,pl. , of Sulcus
Sulks,n. pl., The condition of being sulky; a sulky mood or humor; as, to be in the sulks. 
Sulky,n., Moodly silent; sullen; sour; obstinate; morose; splenetic.
Sully,v. t., To soil; to dirty; to spot; to tarnish; to stain; to darken; -- used literally and figuratively; as, to sully a sword; to sully a person's reputation. 
Sumac,n., Alt. of Sumach
Sumph,n., A dunce; a blockhead.
Sunna,n., A collection of traditions received by the orthodox Mohammedans as of equal authority with the Koran.
Sunny,superl., Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from, or resembling the sun; hence, shining; bright; brilliant; radiant. 
Sunup,n., Sunrise.
Super,n., A contraction of Supernumerary, in sense 2. 
Supra,adv., Over; above; before; also, beyond; besides; -- much used as a prefix. 
Surah,n., A soft twilled silk fabric much used for women's dresses; -- called also surah silk.
Sural,a., Of or pertaining to the calf of the leg; as, the sural arteries. 
Surfy,a., Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy shore. 
Surge,n., A spring; a fountain.
Surgy,a., Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges in motion or appearance; swelling.
Surly,a., Arrogant; haughty.
Sutor,n., A kind of sirup made by the Indians of Arizona from the fruit of some cactaceous plant (probably the Cereus giganteus
Sutra,n., A precept; an aphorism; a brief rule.
Swage,v. t. & i., See Assuage.
Swain,n., A servant.
Swaip,v. i., To walk proudly; to sweep along.
Swale,n., A valley or low place; a tract of low, and usually wet, land; a moor; a fen. 
Swamp,n., Wet, spongy land; soft, low ground saturated with water, but not usually covered with it; marshy ground away from the seashore. 
Swang,, imp. of Swing.
Swape,n., See Sweep, n., 12. 
Sward,n., Skin; covering.
Sware,, imp. of Swear.
Swarf,v. i., To grow languid; to faint.
Swarm,v. i., To climb a tree, pole, or the like, by embracing it with the arms and legs alternately. See Shin. 
Swart,n., Sward.
Swash,v. t., An oval figure, whose moldings are oblique to the axis of the work. 
Swate,, imp. of Sweat.
Swath,v. t., A line of grass or grain cut and thrown together by the scythe in mowing or cradling.
Sweal,v. i., To melt and run down, as the tallow of a candle; to waste away without feeding the flame. 
Swore,imp., of Swear
Sware,, of Swear
Sworn,p. p., of Swear
Swear,v. i., To affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve on oath; also, to affirm solemnly by some sacred object, or one regarded as sacred, as the Bible, the Koran, etc. 
Sweat,imp. & p. p., of Sweat
Swede,n., A native or inhabitant of Sweden.
Swept,imp. & p. p., of Sweep
Sweep,v. i., To pass a broom across (a surface
Sweet,superl., Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; -- opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges. 
Swell,v. i., To grow larger; to dilate or extend the exterior surface or dimensions, by matter added within, or by expansion of the inclosed substance; as, the legs swell in dropsy; a bruised part swells; a bladder swells by inflation. 
Swelt,, imp. of Swell.
Swept,, imp. & p. p. of Sweep.
Swerd,n. & v., See Sward, n. & v. 
Swich,a., Such.
Swift,v. i., Moving a great distance in a short time; moving with celerity or velocity; fleet; rapid; quick; speedy; prompt.
Swill,v. t., To wash; to drench.
Swine,n., Any animal of the hog kind, especially one of the domestical species. Swine secrete a large amount of subcutaneous fat, which, when extracted, is known as lard. The male is specifically called boar, the female, sow, and the young, pig. See Hog. 
Swung,imp. & p. p., of Swing
Swang,Archaic imp., of Swing
Swing,v. i., To move to and fro, as a body suspended in the air; to wave; to vibrate; to oscillate. 
Swank,imp., of Swink
Swonk,, of Swink
Swink,v. i., To labor; to toil; to salve.
Swipe,n., A swape or sweep. See Sweep.
Swirl,n., To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy. 
Swish,v. t., To flourish, so as to make the sound swish. 
Swiss,n.sing. & pl., A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Switzer; the people of Switzerland.
Swive,v. t., To copulate with (a woman
Swoln,, Contraction of Swollen, p. p. 
Swoon,v. i., To sink into a fainting fit, in which there is an apparent suspension of the vital functions and mental powers; to faint; -- often with away. 
Swoop,n., To fall on at once and seize; to catch while on the wing; as, a hawk swoops a chicken. 
Sword,n., An offensive weapon, having a long and usually sharp/pointed blade with a cutting edge or edges. It is the general term, including the small sword, rapier, saber, scimiter, and many other varieties. 
Swore,, imp. of Swear.
Sworn,, p. p. of Swear.
Swown,v. & n., Swoon.
Swung,, imp. & p. p. of Swing.
Sycee,n., Silver, pounded into ingots of the shape of a shoe, and used as currency. The most common weight is about one pound troy. 
Syker,a. & adv., See Sicker.
Sylph,n., An imaginary being inhabiting the air; a fairy.
Sylva,n., Same as Silva.
Symar,n., Alt. of Symarr
Synod,n., An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church matters.
Syren,n., See Siren.
Syrma,n., A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in Greek and Roman theaters. 
Syrup,a., Alt. of Syrupy
Sythe,prep., adv., conj. & n., See Sith, Sithe. 
Tabby,n., A kind of waved silk, usually called watered silk, manufactured like taffeta, but thicker and stronger. The watering is given to it by calendering. 
Taber,v. i., Same as Tabor.
Tabes,n., Progressive emaciation of the body, accompained with hectic fever, with no well-marked logical symptoms. 
Tabid,a., Affected by tabes; tabetic.
Table,n., A smooth, flat surface, like the side of a board; a thin, flat, smooth piece of anything; a slab. 
Taboo,n., A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction. 
Tabor,n., A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person. 
Tacet,v.impers., It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part to be silent during a whole movement.
Tache,n., Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a button.
Tacit,a., Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent; as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an objection. 
Tacky,a., Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried. 
Ta'en,, p. p. of Ta, to take, or a contraction of Taken. 
Taffy,n., A kind of candy made of molasses or brown sugar boiled down and poured out in shallow pans.
Tafia,n., A variety of rum.
Taint,n., A thrust with a lance, which fails of its intended effect. 
Taira,n., Same as Tayra.
Tairn,n., See Tarn.
Taken,, p. p. of Take.
Taker,n., One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehends.
Taled,n., A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues.
Tales,n., Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter. 
Tally,n., Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut, as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper, etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept. 
Talma,n., A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the dress of ladies. 
Talon,n., The claw of a predaceous bird or animal, especially the claw of a bird of prey. 
Taluk,n., A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the collection and payment of the public revenue due from it. 
Talpa,n., A genus of small insectivores including the common European mole.
Talus,n., The astragalus.
Tamed,imp. & p. p., of Tame
Tamer,n., One who tames or subdues.
Tamil,a., Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language. 
Tamis,n., A sieve, or strainer, made of a kind of woolen cloth. 
Tammy,n., A kind of woolen, or woolen and cotton, cloth, often highly glazed, -- used for curtains, sieves, strainers, etc. 
fibre,, A tough vegetable fiber used as a substitute for bristles in making brushes. The piassava and the ixtle are both used under this name.
Tamul,a. & n., Tamil.
Tanka,n., A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is often rowed by women. Called also tankia.
Tansy,n., Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy (T. vulgare
Taper,n., A small wax candle; a small lighted wax candle; hence, a small light. 
Tapet,n., Worked or figured stuff; tapestry.
Tapir,n., Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short, thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of little use. 
Tapis,n., Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table. 
Tapoa,, A small carnivorous marsupial (Phascogale penicillata
Tardo,a., Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.
Tardy,superl., Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.
Tared,imp. & p. p., of Tare
Targe,n., A shield or target.
Tarin,n., The siskin.
Tarot,n., A game of cards; -- called also taroc.
Tarre,v., To set on, as a dog; to incite. 
Tarry,n., Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar. 
Tarse,n., The male falcon.
Tarsi,n., pl. of Tarsus.
Tasco,n., A kind of clay for making melting pots.
Tasse,n., A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet. 
Taste,v. t., To try by the touch; to handle; as, to taste a bow. 
Tasto,n., A key or thing touched to produce a tone.
Tasty,superl., Having a good taste; -- applied to persons; as, a tasty woman. See Taste, n., 5. 
Tatch,n., A spot or stain; also, a trick. 
Tatou,n., The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas
Tatta,n., A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house, over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool the air as it enters. 
Taunt,a., Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts. 
Tawed,imp. & p. p., of Taw
Tawer,n., One who taws; a dresser of white leather.
Tawny,n., Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion. 
Taxed,imp. & p. p., of Tax
Taxel,n., The American badger.
Taxer,n., One who taxes.
Taxis,n., Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it. 
Taxor,n., Same as Taxer, n., 2. 
Tayra,n., A South American carnivore (Galera barbara
Tazel,n., The teasel.
Tazza,n., An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl, resting on a pedestal and often having handles. 
Teach,v. t., To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach arithmetic, dancing, music, or the like; to teach morals. 
Teade,n., A torch.
Teary,a., Wet with tears; tearful.
Tease,v. t., To comb or card, as wool or flax. 
Techy,a., Peevish; fretful; irritable.
Tecum,n., See Tucum.
Tedge,n., The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured; runner, geat. 
Teend,v. t. & i., To kindle; to burn.
Teens,n. pl., The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens. 
Teeny,a., Very small; tiny.
Teest,n., A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil. 
Teeth,n., pl. of Tooth.
Teind,n., A tithe.
Teine,n., See Teyne.
Teint,n., Tint; color; tinge, See Tint. 
Telic,a., Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from ecbatic. See Ecbatic. 
Tempo,n., The rate or degree of movement in time.
Temps,n., Time.
Tempt,v. t., To put to trial; to prove; to test; to try.
Temse,n., A sieve.
Tench,n., A European fresh-water fish (Tinca tinca, or T. vulgaris
Tenet,n., Any opinion, principle, dogma, belief, or doctrine, which a person holds or maintains as true; as, the tenets of Plato or of Cicero. 
Tenia,n., See Taenia.
Tenne,n., A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown. It is represented by diagonal lines from sinister to dexter, crossed by vertical lines. 
Tennu,n., The tapir.
Tenon,n., A projecting member left by cutting away the wood around it, and made to insert into a mortise, and in this way secure together the parts of a frame; especially, such a member when it passes entirely through the thickness of the piece in which the mortise is cut, and shows on the other side. Cf. Tooth, Tusk. 
Tenor,n., A state of holding on in a continuous course; manner of continuity; constant mode; general tendency; course; career.
Tense,n., One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time. 
Tenth,a., Next in order after the ninth; coming after nine others.
Tepal,n., A division of a perianth.
Tepee,n., An Indian wigwam or tent.
Tepid,a., Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepid vapors. 
Tepor,n., Gentle heat; moderate warmth; tepidness.
Terce,n., See Tierce.
Teret,a., Round; terete.
Terga,pl. , of Tergum
Terin,n., A small yellow singing bird, with an ash-colored head; the European siskin. Called also tarin. 
Terma,n., The terminal lamina, or thin ventral part, of the anterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain. 
Terra,n., The earth; earth.
Terry,n., A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for upholstery and trimmings. 
Terse,superl., Appearing as if rubbed or wiped off; rubbed; smooth; polished.
Terza,, A peculiar and complicated system of versification, borrowed by the early Italian poets from the Troubadours. 
Tests,pl. , of Testa
Testa,n., The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate animals.
Teste,n., A witness.
Testy,superl., Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated.
Tetel,n., A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tora
Tetty,a., Testy; irritable.
Tewed,imp. & p. p., of Tew
Tewan,n., A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of New Mexico and adjacent regions.
Tewed,a., Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship.
Tewel,n., A pipe, funnel, or chimney, as for smoke. 
Texas,n., A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the pilot house, officers' cabins, etc. 
Teyne,n., A thin plate of metal.
Thack,, Alt. of Thacker
Thane,n., A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place. 
Thank,n., A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural. 
Thave,n., Same as Theave.
Thawy,a., Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting.
Theca,n., A sheath; a case; as, the theca, or cell, of an anther; the theca, or spore case, of a fungus; the theca of the spinal cord. 
Theft,n., The act of stealing; specifically, the felonious taking and removing of personal property, with an intent to deprive the rightful owner of the same; larceny. 
Thegn,n., Thane. See Thane.
Their,pron. & a., The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. 
Theme,n., A subject or topic on which a person writes or speaks; a proposition for discussion or argument; a text.
There,pron., In or at that place.
Therf,a., Not fermented; unleavened; -- said of bread, loaves, etc. 
These,pron., The plural of this. See This.
Theta,n., A letter of the Greek alphabet corresponding to th in English; -- sometimes called the unlucky letter, from being used by the judges on their ballots in passing condemnation on a prisoner, it being the first letter of the Greek qa`natos, death. 
Thewy,a., Having strong or large thews or muscles; muscular; sinewy; strong.
Thick,superl., Measuring in the third dimension other than length and breadth, or in general dimension other than length; -- said of a solid body; as, a timber seven inches thick. 
Thief,n., One who steals; one who commits theft or larceny. See Theft.
Thigh,n., The proximal segment of the hind limb between the knee and the trunk. See Femur.
Thilk,pron., That same; this; that.
Thill,n., One of the two long pieces of wood, extending before a vehicle, between which a horse is hitched; a shaft. 
Thine,pron. & a., A form of the possessive case of the pronoun thou, now superseded in common discourse by your, the possessive of you, but maintaining a place in solemn discourse, in poetry, and in the usual language of the Friends, or Quakers. 
Thing,n., Whatever exists, or is conceived to exist, as a separate entity, whether animate or inanimate; any separable or distinguishable object of thought. 
Think,v. t., To seem or appear; -- used chiefly in the expressions methinketh or methinks, and methought. 
Third,a., Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as, the third hour in the day. 
Thirl,v. t., To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill.
These,pl. , of This
Thole,n., A wooden or metal pin, set in the gunwale of a boat, to serve as a fulcrum for the oar in rowing. 
Thong,n., A strap of leather; especially, one used for fastening anything. 
Thorn,n., A hard and sharp-pointed projection from a woody stem; usually, a branch so transformed; a spine. 
Thoro,a., Thorough.
Thorp,n., Alt. of Thorpe
Those,pron., The plural of that. See That.
Thoth,n., The god of eloquence and letters among the ancient Egyptians, and supposed to be the inventor of writing and philosophy. He corresponded to the Mercury of the Romans, and was usually represented as a human figure with the head of an ibis or a lamb. 
Thowl,n., A thole pin.
Thraw,n. & v., See Throse.
Three,a., One more than two; two and one.
Threw,, imp. of Throw.
Thrid,a., Third.
Thro',, A contraction of Through.
Throb,v. i., To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; to beat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart, pulse, etc. 
Throe,n., Extreme pain; violent pang; anguish; agony; especially, one of the pangs of travail in childbirth, or purturition. 
Throp,n., A thorp.
Throw,n., Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe. 
Threw,imp., of Throw
Throw,v. t., To fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl. 
Thrum,n., One of the ends of weaver's threads; hence, any soft, short threads or tufts resembling these. 
Thuja,n., A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable for the distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike, closely imbricated, or compressed leaves. 
Thule,n., The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world. According to some, this land was Norway, according to others, Iceland, or more probably Mainland, the largest of the Shetland islands; hence, the Latin phrase ultima Thule, farthest Thule. 
Thumb,n., The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex. See Pollex. 
Thump,n., The sound made by the sudden fall or blow of a heavy body, as of a hammer, or the like. 
Thurl,n., A hole; an aperture.
Thuya,n., Same as Thuja.
Thyme,n., Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus. The garden thyme (Thymus vulgaris
Thymy,a., Abounding with thyme; fragrant; as, a thymy vale. 
Tiara,n., A form of headdress worn by the ancient Persians. According to Xenophon, the royal tiara was encircled with a diadem, and was high and erect, while those of the people were flexible, or had rims turned over. 
Tibia,n., The inner, or preaxial, and usually the larger, of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee. 
Tical,n., A bean-shaped coin of Siam, worth about sixty cents; also, a weight equal to 236 grains troy. 
Tidal,a., Of or pertaining to tides; caused by tides; having tides; periodically rising and falling, or following and ebbing; as, tidal waters. 
Tidde,obs., imp. of Tide, v. i. 
Tided,a., Affected by the tide; having a tide.
Tight,, of Tie
Tying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tie
Tiers,, The third estate, or commonalty, in France, answering to the commons in Great Britain; -- so called in distinction from, and as inferior to, the nobles and clergy. 
Tiger,n., A very large and powerful carnivore (Felis tigris
Tight,, p. p. of Tie.
Tikus,n., The bulau.
Tilde,n., The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, in Spanish words [thus, ?, /], indicating that, in pronunciation, the sound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of the initial, or consonantal, y. 
Tiled,imp. & p. p., of Tile
Tiler,n., A man whose occupation is to cover buildings with tiles.
Tilth,n., The state of being tilled, or prepared for a crop; culture; as, land is good tilth. 
Timal,n., The blue titmouse.
Times,pl. , of Time
Timed,imp. & p. p., of Time
Timer,n., A timekeeper; especially, a watch by which small intervals of time can be measured; a kind of stop watch. It is used for timing the speed of horses, machinery, etc. 
Timid,a., Wanting courage to meet danger; easily frightened; timorous; not bold; fearful; shy.
Tinct,a., Tined; tinged.
Tinea,n., A name applied to various skin diseases, but especially to ringworm. See Ringworm, and Sycosis. 
Tined,a., Furnished with tines; as, a three-tined fork. 
Tinet,n., Brushwood and thorns for making and repairing hedges.
Tinge,v. t., To imbue or impregnate with something different or foreign; as, to tinge a decoction with a bitter taste; to affect in some degree with the qualities of another substance, either by mixture, or by application to the surface; especially, to color slightly; to stain; as, to tinge a blue color with red; an infusion tinged with a yellow color by saffron. 
Tinny,a., Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin. 
Tinto,n., A red Madeira wine, wanting the high aroma of the white sorts, and, when old, resembling tawny port. 
Tipsy,superl., Being under the influence of strong drink; rendered weak or foolish by liquor, but not absolutely or completely drunk; fuddled; intoxicated. 
Tired,imp. & p. p., of Tire
Tirma,n., The oyster catcher.
Tisar,n., The fireplace at the side of an annealing oven.
Tisic,a., Alt. of Tisical
Tisri,n., The seventh month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of September with a part of October. 
Titan,a., Titanic.
Tithe,n., A tenth; the tenth part of anything; specifically, the tenthpart of the increase arising from the profits of land and stock, allotted to the clergy for their support, as in England, or devoted to religious or charitable uses. Almost all the tithes of England and Wales are commuted by law into rent charges. 
Title,n., An inscription put over or upon anything as a name by which it is known.
Titty,n., A little teat; a nipple.
Tiver,n., A kind of ocher which is used in some parts of England in marking sheep.
Toady,n., A mean flatterer; a toadeater; a sycophant.
Toast,v. t., To dry and brown by the heat of a fire; as, to toast bread. 
Tobit,n., A book of the Apocrypha.
Toddy,n., A juice drawn from various kinds of palms in the East Indies; or, a spirituous liquor procured from it by fermentation. 
Toffy,n., Taffy.
Tofus,n., Tophus.
Togas,pl. , of Toga
Togae,pl. , of Toga
Toged,a., Togated.
Toght,a., Taut.
Togue,n., The namaycush.
Tohew,v. t., To hew in pieces.
Toise,a., An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet. 
Tokay,n., A grape of an oval shape and whitish color.
Token,n., Something intended or supposed to represent or indicate another thing or an event; a sign; a symbol; as, the rainbow is a token of God's covenant established with Noah. 
Tokin,n., A tocsin.
Toled,imp. & p. p., of Tole
Tolyl,n., The hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C6H4, regarded as characteristic of certain compounds of the aromatic series related to toluene; as, tolyl carbinol. 
Toman,n., A money of account in Persia, whose value varies greatly at different times and places. Its average value may be reckoned at about two and a half dollars. 
Tomia,pl. , of Tomium
Tommy,n., Bread, -- generally a penny roll; the supply of food carried by workmen as their daily allowance. 
Tonca,, See Tonka bean.
Toned,imp. & p. p., of Tone
Tonge,n., Tongue.
Tonga,n., A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum. 
Tongo,n., The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands.
Tongs,n. pl., An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs. 
Tonic,a., Of or relating to tones or sounds; specifically (Phon.
Tonka,, The seed of a leguminous tree (Dipteryx odorata
Tonne,n., A tun.
Tonus,n., Tonicity, or tone; as, muscular tonus. 
Teeth,pl. , of Tooth
Tooth,n., One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food. 
Topau,n., The rhinocerous bird (a
Topaz,n., A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, generally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of greenesh, bluish, or brownish shades. It sometimes occurs massive and opaque. It is a fluosilicate of alumina, and is used as a gem. 
Toped,imp. & p. p., of Tope
Toper,n., One who topes, or drinks frequently or to excess; a drunkard; a sot. 
Topet,n., The European crested titmouse.
Tophi,pl. , of Tophus
Topic,n., One of the various general forms of argument employed in probable as distinguished from demonstrative reasoning, -- denominated by Aristotle to`poi (literally, places
Toque,n., A kind of cap worn in the 16th century, and copied in modern fashions; -- called also toquet. 
Torch,n., A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame. 
Toret,n., A Turret.
Torse,n., A wreath.
Torsk,n., The cusk. See Cusk.
Torsi,pl. , of Torso
Torso,n., The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; in sculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as, the torso of Hercules. 
Torta,n., a flat heap of moist, crushed silver ore, prepared for the patio process. 
Torus,n., A lage molding used in the bases of columns. Its profile is semicircular. See Illust. of Molding.
Tossy,a., Tossing the head, as in scorn or pride; hence, proud; contemptuous; scornful; affectedly indifferent; as, a tossy commonplace. 
Tosto,a., Quick; rapid.
Total,a., Whole; not divided; entire; full; complete; absolute; as, a total departure from the evidence; a total loss. 
Toted,imp. & p. p., of Tote
Totem,n., A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the North American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan. 
Toter,n., The stone roller. See Stone roller (a
Totly,v. i., To walk in a wavering, unsteady manner; to toddle; to topple. 
Totty,a., Unsteady; dizzy; tottery.
Touch,v. t., To come in contact with; to hit or strike lightly against; to extend the hand, foot, or the like, so as to reach or rest on. 
Tough,superl., Having the quality of flexibility without brittleness; yielding to force without breaking; capable of resisting great strain; as, the ligaments of animals are remarkably tough. 
Tourn,n., A spinning wheel.
Touse,v. t. & i., Alt. of Touze
Touze,v. t. & i., To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry.
Touse,n., A pulling; a disturbance.
Touze,v.t & i., See Touse.
Towed,imp. & p. p., of Tow
Towel,n., A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath. 
Tower,n., A mass of building standing alone and insulated, usually higher than its diameter, but when of great size not always of that proportion. 
Toxic,a., Alt. of Toxical
Toxin,n., Alt. of Toxine
toyed,imp. & p. p., of Toy
Toyer,n., One who toys; one who is full of trifling tricks; a trifler.
Trabu,n., Same as Trubu.
Trace,n., One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug. 
Track,n., A mark left by something that has passed along; as, the track, or wake, of a ship; the track of a meteor; the track of a sled or a wheel. 
Tract,n., A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent; a short treatise, especially on practical religion. 
Trade,v., A track; a trail; a way; a path; also, passage; travel; resort. 
Trail,v. t., To hunt by the track; to track.
Train,v. t., To draw along; to trail; to drag.
Trais,n. pl., Alt. of Trays
Trays,n. pl., Traces.
Trait,v., A stroke; a touch.
Tramp,v. i., To tread upon forcibly and repeatedly; to trample.
Trant,v. i., To traffic in an itinerary manner; to peddle.
Trape,v. i., To walk or run about in an idle or slatternly manner; to traipse.
Traps,n. pl., Small or portable articles for dress, furniture, or use; goods; luggage; things. 
Trash,n., That which is worthless or useless; rubbish; refuse.
Trass,n., A white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement. Hence, a coarse sort of plaster or mortar, durable in water, and used to line cisterns and other reservoirs of water. 
Trave,n., A crossbeam; a lay of joists.
Trawl,v. t., To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl. 
Trays,pl. , of Tray
Tread,v. i., To set the foot; to step.
Treat,v. t., To handle; to manage; to use; to bear one's self toward; as, to treat prisoners cruelly; to treat children kindly. 
Treed,imp. & p. p., of Tree
Treen,a., Made of wood; wooden.
Trend,v. i., To have a particular direction; to run; to stretch; to tend; as, the shore of the sea trends to the southwest. 
Tress,n., A braid, knot, or curl, of hair; a ringlet. 
Trewe,a., True.
Trews,n. pl., Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders. 
Triad,n., A union of three; three objects treated as one; a ternary; a trinity; as, a triad of deities. 
Trial,n., The act of trying or testing in any manner.
Trias,n., The formation situated between the Permian and Lias, and so named by the Germans, because consisting of three series of strata, which are called in German the Bunter sandstein, Muschelkalk, and Keuper. 
Tribe,n., A family, race, or series of generations, descending from the same progenitor, and kept distinct, as in the case of the twelve tribes of Israel, descended from the twelve sons of Jacob. 
Trica,n., An apothecium in certain lichens, having a spherical surface marked with spiral or concentric ridges and furrows. 
Trice,v. t., To pull; to haul; to drag; to pull away.
Trick,a., An artifice or stratagem; a cunning contrivance; a sly procedure, usually with a dishonest intent; as, a trick in trade. 
Tride,a., Short and ready; fleet; as, a tride pace; -- a term used by sportsmen. 
Tried,, imp. & p. p. of Try.
Trier,n., One who tries; one who makes experiments; one who examines anything by a test or standard.
Trill,v. i., To flow in a small stream, or in drops rapidly succeeding each other; to trickle. 
Trine,a., Threefold; triple; as, trine dimensions, or length, breadth, and thickness. 
Trink,n., A kind of fishing net.
Trior,n., Same as Trier, 2 and 3. 
Tripe,n., The large stomach of ruminating animals, when prepared for food. 
Trist,v. t. & i., To trust.
Trite,a., Worn out; common; used until so common as to have lost novelty and interest; hackneyed; stale; as, a trite remark; a trite subject. 
Troad,n., See Trode.
Troat,v. i., To cry, as a buck in rutting time. 
Troco,n., An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards.
Trode,, imp. of Tread.
Troic,a., Pertaining to Troy; Trojan.
Troll,n., A supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch. 
Tromp,n., A blowing apparatus, in which air, drawn into the upper part of a vertical tube through side holes by a stream of water within, is carried down with the water into a box or chamber below which it is led to a furnace. 
Trona,n., A native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O, occurring as a white crystalline fibrous deposit from certain soda brine springs and lakes; -- called also urao, and by the ancients nitrum. 
Trone,n., A throne.
Troop,n., A collection of people; a company; a number; a multitude.
Trope,n., The use of a word or expression in a different sense from that which properly belongs to it; the use of a word or expression as changed from the original signification to another, for the sake of giving life or emphasis to an idea; a figure of speech. 
Troth,n., Belief; faith; fidelity.
Troul,v. t. & i., See Troll.
Trout,n., Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidae. They are highly esteemed as game fishes and for the quality of their flesh. All the species breed in fresh water, but after spawning many of them descend to the sea if they have an opportunity. 
Trowl,n., See Troll.
Trubu,n., An East India herring (Clupea toli
Truce,n., A suspension of arms by agreement of the commanders of opposing forces; a temporary cessation of hostilities, for negotiation or other purpose; an armistice. 
Truck,v. i., A small wheel, as of a vehicle; specifically (Ord.
Trull,n., A drab; a strumpet; a harlot; a trollop.
Truly,adv., In a true manner; according to truth; in agreement with fact; as, to state things truly; the facts are truly represented. 
Trump,n., A wind instrument of music; a trumpet, or sound of a trumpet; -- used chiefly in Scripture and poetry. 
Trunk,n., The stem, or body, of a tree, apart from its limbs and roots; the main stem, without the branches; stock; stalk. 
Truss,n., A bundle; a package; as, a truss of grass. 
Trust,n., Assured resting of the mind on the integrity, veracity, justice, friendship, or other sound principle, of another person; confidence; reliance; reliance. 
Truth,n., The quality or being true; as: -- (a
tried,imp. & p. p., of Try
Tryst,n., Trust.
Tsebe,n., The springbok.
Tubal,a., Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy. 
Tubby,a., Resembling a tub; specifically sounding dull and without resonance, like a tub; wanting elasticity or freedom of sound; as, a tubby violin. 
Tubed,imp. & p. p., of Tube
Tuber,n., A fleshy, rounded stem or root, usually containing starchy matter, as the potato or arrowroot; a thickened root-stock. See Illust. of Tuberous. 
Tucan,n., The Mexican pocket gopher (Geomys Mexicanus
Tucet,n., See Tucket, a steak. 
Tucum,n., A fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare
Tudor,a., Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended from Owen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V. The first reigning Tudor was Henry VII.; the last, Elizabeth. 
Tufty,a., Abounding with tufts.
Tugan,n., Same as Tucan.
Tulle,n., In plate armor, a suspended plate in from of the thigh. See Illust. of Tasses. 
Tulip,n., Any plant of the liliaceous genus Tulipa. Many varieties are cultivated for their beautiful, often variegated flowers. 
Tulle,n., A kind of silk lace or light netting, used for veils, etc. 
Tumid,a., Swelled, enlarged, or distended; as, a tumid leg; tumid flesh. 
Tumor,n., A morbid swelling, prominence, or growth, on any part of the body; especially, a growth produced by deposition of new tissue; a neoplasm. 
Tuned,imp. & p. p., of Tune
Tuner,n., One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments. 
Tunic,n., An under-garment worn by the ancient Romans of both sexes. It was made with or without sleeves, reached to or below the knees, and was confined at the waist by a girdle. 
Tunny,n., Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus / Albacora thynnus
Tupal,n., Any one of the tupaiids.
Turbo,n., Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidae, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum. 
Turfs,pl. , of Turf
Turfy,superl., Abounding with turf; made of, or covered with, turf. 
Turio,n., A shoot or sprout from the ground.
Turko,n., One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk. 
Tusky,a., Having tusks.
Tutor,n., One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of, some person or thing. 
Tutti,n. pl., All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform together.
Tutty,n., A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of a crude zinc oxide. 
Twain,a. & n., Two; -- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry and burlesque. 
Twang,n., A tang. See Tang a state.
Twank,v. t., To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle. 
Tweag,v. t., To tweak.
Tweak,v. t., To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as, to tweak the nose. 
Tweed,n., A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two colors, before weaving. 
Tweel,n. & v., See Twill.
Tweer,n., Same as Tuyere.
Twice,adv., Two times; once and again.
Twill,v. i., To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface. 
Twilt,n., A quilt.
Twine,n., A twist; a convolution.
Twink,v. i., To twinkle.
Twire,n., A twisted filament; a thread.
Twirl,v. t., To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn rapidly with the fingers.
Twist,v. t., To contort; to writhe; to complicate; to crook spirally; to convolve.
Twite,n., The European tree sparrow.
Tyger,n., A tiger.
Tying,, p. pr. of Tie.
Tyler,n., See 2d Tiler.
Typal,a., Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a type; typical.
Typed,imp. & p. p., of Type
Typic,a., Typical.
Tyran,n., A tyrant.
Tyros,pl. , of Tyro
Tythe,n., See Tithe.
Udder,n., The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored; -- popularly called the bag in cows and other quadrupeds. See Mamma.
Uhlan,n., One of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.
Ukase,n., In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having the force of law. 
Ulcer,n., A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues. 
Ulema,n., A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice. 
Ullet,n., A European owl (Syrnium aluco
Ulmic,a., Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin.
Ulmin,n., A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf. Humin.
Ulmus,n., A genus of trees including the elm.
Ulnar,a., Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve. 
Ultra,a., Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures. 
Ulula,n., A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea
Umbel,n., A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule. 
Umber,n., A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below. 
Umble,, A pie made of umbles. See To eat humble pie, under Humble. 
Umbos,pl. , of Umbo
Umbra,n., The conical shadow projected from a planet or satellite, on the side opposite to the sun, within which a spectator could see no portion of the sun's disk; -- used in contradistinction from penumbra. See Penumbra. 
Umbre,n., See Umber.
Unapt,a., Inapt; slow; dull.
Unarm,v. t., To disarm.
Unbag,v. t., To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags. 
Unbar,v. t., To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate. 
Unbay,v. t., To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses; to let loose; to open.
Unbed,v. t., To raise or rouse from bed.
Unbid,a., Alt. of Unbidden
Unbit,v. t., To remove the turns of (a rope or cable
Unbow,v. t., To unbend.
Unbox,v. t., To remove from a box or boxes.
Unboy,v. t., To divest of the traits of a boy.
Uncap,v. t., To remove a cap or cover from.
Uncia,n., A twelfth part, as of the Roman as; an ounce. 
Uncle,n., The brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship. 
Uncus,n., A hook or claw.
Uncut,a., Not cut; not separated or divided by cutting or otherwise; -- said especially of books, periodicals, and the like, when the leaves have not been separated by trimming in binding. 
Undam,v. t., To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction. 
Under,prep., Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole house. 
Undid,, imp. of Undo.
Undue,a., Not due; not yet owing; as, an undue debt, note, or bond. 
Ubeth,adv., Alt. of Unethes
Unfit,v. t., To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings. 
Unfix,v. t., To loosen from a fastening; to detach from anything that holds; to unsettle; as, to unfix a bayonet; to unfix the mind or affections. 
Unget,v. t., To cause to be unbegotten or unborn, or as if unbegotten or unborn. 
Ungka,n., The siamang; -- called also ungka ape.
Ungod,v. t., To deprive of divinity; to undeify.
Ungot,a., Alt. of Ungotten
Unhap,n., Ill luck; misfortune.
Unhat,v. t. & i., To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as a mark of respect. 
Uniat,n., Alt. of Uniate
Unify,v. t., To cause to be one; to make into a unit; to unite; to view as one.
Union,n., The act of uniting or joining two or more things into one, or the state of being united or joined; junction; coalition; combination. 
Unite,v. t., To put together so as to make one; to join, as two or more constituents, to form a whole; to combine; to connect; to join; to cause to adhere; as, to unite bricks by mortar; to unite iron bars by welding; to unite two armies. 
Unity,n., The state of being one; oneness.
Unked,a., Odd; strange; ugly; old; uncouth.
Unkle,n., See Uncle.
Unlap,v. t., To unfold.
Unlaw,v. t., To deprive of the authority or character of law.
Unlay,v. t., To untwist; as, to unlay a rope. 
Unman,v. t., To deprive of the distinctive qualities of a human being, as reason, or the like. 
Unmew,v. t., To release from confinement or restraint.
Unnun,v. t., To remove from condition of being a nun.
Unoil,v. t., To remove the oil from.
Unpay,v. t., To undo, take back, or annul, as a payment. 
Unpeg,v. t., To remove a peg or pegs from; to unfasten; to open.
Unpen,v. t., To release from a pen or from confinement.
Unpin,v. t., To loose from pins; to remove the pins from; to unfasten; as, to unpin a frock; to unpin a frame. 
Unrig,v. t., To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship. 
Unrip,v. t., To rip; to cut open.
Unsad,a., Unsteady; fickle.
Unsay,v. t., To recant or recall, as what has been said; to refract; to take back again; to make as if not said. 
Unset,a., Not set; not fixed or appointed.
Unsew,v. t., To undo, as something sewn, or something inclosed by sewing; to rip apart; to take out the stitches of. 
Unsex,v. t., To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp., to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, to unsex a woman. 
Unsin,v. t., To deprive of sinfulness, as a sin; to make sinless. 
Untie,v. t., To loosen, as something interlaced or knotted; to disengage the parts of; as, to untie a knot. 
Until,prep., To; unto; towards; -- used of material objects.
Unwit,v. t., To deprive of wit.
Upbar,v. t., To fasten with a bar.
Upend,v. t., To end up; to set on end, as a cask. 
Uphaf,, imp. of Upheave.
Upher,n., A fir pole of from four to seven inches diameter, and twenty to forty feet long, sometimes roughly hewn, used for scaffoldings, and sometimes for slight and common roofs, for which use it is split. 
Uplay,v. t., To hoard.
Upper,comp., Being further up, literally or figuratively; higher in place, position, rank, dignity, or the like; superior; as, the upper lip; the upper side of a thing; the upper house of a legislature. 
Uprun,v. i., To run up; to ascend.
Upset,v. t., To set up; to put upright.
Upsun,n., The time during which the sun is up, or above the horizon; the time between sunrise and sunset. 
Uptie,v. t., To tie up.
Upupa,n., A genus of birds which includes the common hoopoe.
Upyat,, imp. of Upgive.
Urali,n., See Curare.
Urare,n., Alt. of Urari
Urari,n., See Curare.
Urate,n., A salt of uric acid; as, sodium urate; ammonium urate. 
Urban,a., Of or belonging to a city or town; as, an urban population. 
Ureal,a., Of or pertaining to urea; containing, or consisting of, urea; as, ureal deposits. 
Uredo,n., One of the stages in the life history of certain rusts (Uredinales
Urged,imp. & p. p., of Urge
Urger,n., One who urges.
Urine,n., In mammals, a fluid excretion from the kidneys; in birds and reptiles, a solid or semisolid excretion. 
Urite,n., One of the segments of the abdomen or post-abdomen of arthropods.
Urith,n., The bindings of a hedge.
Urnal,a., Of or pertaining to an urn; effected by an urn or urns.
Ursal,n., The ursine seal. See the Note under 1st Seal.
Urson,n., The Canada porcupine. See Porcupine.
Ursuk,n., The bearded seal.
Ursus,n., A genus of Carnivora including the common bears.
Urubu,n., The black vulture (Catharista atrata
Usage,n., The act of using; mode of using or treating; treatment; conduct with respect to a person or a thing; as, good usage; ill usage; hard usage. 
Usant,a., Using; accustomed.
Using,p. pr. & vb. n., of Use
Usher,n., An officer or servant who has the care of the door of a court, hall, chamber, or the like; hence, an officer whose business it is to introduce strangers, or to walk before a person of rank. Also, one who escorts persons to seats in a church, theater, etc. 
Usnea,n., A genus of lichens, most of the species of which have long, gray, pendulous, and finely branched fronds. Usnea barbata is the common bearded lichen which grows on branches of trees in northern forests. 
Usnic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as a yellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea, Parmelia, etc.
Usual,n., Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common. 
Usure,v. i., To practice usury; to charge unlawful interest.
Usurp,v. t., To seize, and hold in possession, by force, or without right; as, to usurp a throne; to usurp the prerogatives of the crown; to usurp power; to usurp the right of a patron is to oust or dispossess him. 
Usury,v. t., A premium or increase paid, or stipulated to be paid, for a loan, as of money; interest. 
Utica,a., Of, pertaining to, or designating, a subdivision of the Trenton Period of the Lower Silurian, characterized in the State of New York by beds of shale. 
Utile,v. t., Profitable; useful.
Utter,a., Outer.
Uvate,n., A conserve made of grapes.
Uvrou,n., See Euphroe.
Uvula,n., The pendent fleshy lobe in the middle of the posterior border of the soft palate.
Uzema,n., A Burman measure of twelve miles.
Vacua,pl. , of Vacuum
Vagal,a., Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric. 
Vague,v. i., Wandering; vagrant; vagabond.
Vagus,a., Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve.
Vairy,n., Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair.
Valet,n., A male waiting servant; a servant who attends on gentleman's person; a body servant.
Valid,a., Strong; powerful; efficient.
Valla,pl. , of Vallum
Valor,n., Value; worth.
Value,n., The property or aggregate properties of a thing by which it is rendered useful or desirable, or the degree of such property or sum of properties; worth; excellence; utility; importance. 
Valve,n., A door; especially, one of a pair of folding doors, or one of the leaves of such a door. 
Vapid,a., Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood. 
Vapor,n., Any substance in the gaseous, or aeriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid. 
Varan,n., The monitor. See Monitor, 3. 
Varec,n., The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack. 
Varix,n., A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein. 
Vasty,a., Vast; immense.
Vasum,n., A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella. 
Vault,n., An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy. 
Vaunt,v. i., To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag. 
Vauty,a., Vaulted.
Vedro,n., A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U. S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons. 
Veery,n., An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens
Veiny,a., Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble. 
Velar,a., Of or pertaining to a velum; esp. (Anat.
Velum,n., Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate. See under Palate. 
Venae,pl. , of Vena
VenAe,pl. , of Vena
Venal,a., Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood. 
Vends,n. pl., See Wends.
Venew,n., A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney. 
Veney,n., A bout; a thrust; a venew.
Venge,v. t., To avenge; to punish; to revenge.
Venom,n., Matter fatal or injurious to life; poison; particularly, the poisonous, the poisonous matter which certain animals, such as serpents, scorpions, bees, etc., secrete in a state of health, and communicate by thing or stinging. 
Venue,n., A neighborhood or near place; the place or county in which anything is alleged to have happened; also, the place where an action is laid. 
Venus,n., The goddess of beauty and love, that is, beauty or love deified. 
Verge,n., A rod or staff, carried as an emblem of authority; as, the verge, carried before a dean. 
Verse,n., A line consisting of a certain number of metrical feet (see Foot, n., 9
Verso,n., The reverse, or left-hand, page of a book or a folded sheet of paper; -- opposed to recto. 
Verst,n., A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet. 
Vertu,n., Virtue; power. See Virtue.
Verve,n., Excitement of imagination such as animates a poet, artist, or musician, in composing or performing; rapture; enthusiasm; spirit; energy. 
Vespa,n., A genus of Hymenoptera including the common wasps and hornets.
Vesta,n., One of the great divinities of the ancient Romans, identical with the Greek Hestia. She was a virgin, and the goddess of the hearth; hence, also, of the fire on it, and the family round it. 
Vetch,n., Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder. The common species is V. sativa. 
Vexed,imp. & p. p., of Vex
Vexer,n., One who vexes or troubles.
Vexil,n., A vexillum.
Viage,n., A voyage; a journey.
Viand,n., An article of food; provisions; food; victuals; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Viary,a., Of or pertaining to roads; happening on roads.
Vicar,n., One deputed or authorized to perform the functions of another; a substitute in office; a deputy.
Viced,imp. & p. p., of Vice
Vichy,, A mineral water found at Vichy, France. It is essentially an effervescent solution of sodium, calcium, and magnetism carbonates, with sodium and potassium chlorides; also, by extension, any artificial or natural water resembling in composition the Vichy water proper. Called also, colloquially, Vichy. 
Vying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Vie
Viewy,a., Having peculiar views; fanciful; visionary; unpractical; as, a viewy person. 
Vifda,n., In the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted. 
Vigil,v. i., Abstinence from sleep, whether at a time when sleep is customary or not; the act of keeping awake, or the state of being awake, or the state of being awake; sleeplessness; wakefulness; watch. 
Vigor,n., Active strength or force of body or mind; capacity for exertion, physically, intellectually, or morally; force; energy. 
Viled,a., Abusive; scurrilous; defamatory; vile.
Villa,n., A country seat; a country or suburban residence of some pretensions to elegance.
Villi,n., pl. of Villus.
Vimen,n., A long, slender, flexible shoot or branch. 
Vined,a., Having leaves like those of the vine; ornamented with vine leaves.
Viner,n., A vinedresser.
Vingt,, A game at cards, played by two or more persons. The fortune of each player depends upon obtaining from the dealer such cards that the sum of their pips, or spots, is twenty-one, or a number near to it. 
Vinic,a., Of or pertaining to wine; as, vinic alcohol. 
Vinny,a., Vinnewed.
Vinyl,n., The hypothetical radical C2H3, regarded as the characteristic residue of ethylene and that related series of unsaturated hydrocarbons with which the allyl compounds are homologous. 
Viola,n., A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets. 
Viole,n., A vial.
Viper,a., Any one of numerous species of Old World venomous makes belonging to Vipera, Clotho, Daboia, and other genera of the family Viperidae. 
Vireo,n., Any one of numerous species of American singing birds belonging to Vireo and allied genera of the family Vireonidae. In many of the species the back is greenish, or olive-colored. Called also greenlet. 
Virge,n., A wand. See Verge.
Virgo,n., A sign of the zodiac which the sun enters about the 21st of August, marked thus [/] in almanacs. 
Virid,a., Green.
Virtu,n., A love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities.
Virus,v. i., Contagious or poisonous matter, as of specific ulcers, the bite of snakes, etc.; -- applied to organic poisons. 
Visit,v. t., To go or come to see, as for the purpose of friendship, business, curiosity, etc.; to attend; to call upon; as, the physician visits his patient. 
Visne,n., Neighborhood; vicinity; venue. See Venue.
Vison,n., The mink.
Visor,n., A part of a helmet, arranged so as to lift or open, and so show the face. The openings for seeing and breathing are generally in it. 
Vista,n., A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue. 
Visto,n., A vista; a prospect.
Vital,a., Belonging or relating to life, either animal or vegetable; as, vital energies; vital functions; vital actions. 
Vitis,n., A genus of plants including all true grapevines.
Vitoe,a., See Durukuli.
Vitta,n., One of the oil tubes in the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Vivda,n., See Vifda.
Vives,n., A disease of brute animals, especially of horses, seated in the glands under the ear, where a tumor is formed which sometimes ends in suppuration. 
Vivid,a., True to the life; exhibiting the appearance of life or freshness; animated; spirited; bright; strong; intense; as, vivid colors. 
Vixen,n., A female fox.
Vizir,n., See Vizier.
Vizor,n., See Visor.
Vocal,a., Of or pertaining to the voice or speech; having voice; endowed with utterance; full of voice, or voices. 
Vodka,n., A Russian drink distilled from rye.
Vogle,n., Same as Vugg.
Vogue,n., The way or fashion of people at any particular time; temporary mode, custom, or practice; popular reception for the time; -- used now generally in the phrase in vogue. 
Voice,n., Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human voice; a pleasant voice; a low voice. 
Volar,a., Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot.
Volge,n., The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob.
Volow,v. t., To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers.
Volte,pl. , of Volta
Volta,n., A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta, once. Seconda volta, second time, points to certain modifications in the close of a repeated strain. 
Volti,imperative., Turn, that is, turn over the leaf. 
Volva,n., A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the plant develops. 
Vomer,n., A bone, or one of a pair of bones, beneath the ethmoid region of the skull, forming a part a part of the partition between the nostrils in man and other mammals. 
Vomic,, Same as Nux vomica.
Vomit,n., To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to spew.
Voted,imp. & p. p., of Vote
Voter,n., One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, an independent voter. 
Vouch,v. t., To call; to summon.
Vowed,imp. & p. p., of Vow
Vowel,n., A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of speech; -- distinguished from a consonant in that the latter, whether made with or without vocality, derives its character in every case from some kind of obstructive action by the mouth organs. Also, a letter or character which represents such a sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 146-149. 
Vower,n., One who makes a vow.
Voyol,n., See Viol, 2. 
Vulva,n., The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the opening between the projecting parts of the external organs. 
Vying,, a. & n. from Vie.
Wacke,n., Alt. of Wacky
Wacky,n., A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt. 
Waded,imp. & p. p., of Wad
Wader,n., One who, or that which, wades. 
Wafer,n., A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients.
Waged,imp. & p. p., of Wage
Wagel,n., See Waggel.
Wager,v. t., Something deposited, laid, or hazarded on the event of a contest or an unsettled question; a bet; a stake; a pledge. 
Wages,n., A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2. 
Wagon,n., A wheeled carriage; a vehicle on four wheels, and usually drawn by horses; especially, one used for carrying freight or merchandise. 
Waift,n., A waif.
Waist,n., That part of the human body which is immediately below the ribs or thorax; the small part of the body between the thorax and hips.
Waive,v. t., A waif; a castaway.
Waked,imp. & p. p., of Wake
Waken,v. i., To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened.
Waker,n., One who wakes.
Walty,a., Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship. 
Waltz,n., A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance. 
Walwe,v., To wallow.
Wandy,a., Long and flexible, like a wand. 
Waned,imp. & p. p., of Wane
Waney,n., A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring. See Wany, a. 
Wango,n., A boomerang.
Wanly,adv., In a wan, or pale, manner. 
Wanty,n., A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope. 
Wanze,v. i., To wane; to wither.
Waped,a., Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected.
Wares,n. pl., See 4th Ware.
Warly,a., Warlike.
Warre,a., Worse.
Warry,v. t., See Warye.
Warty,a., Having warts; full of warts; overgrow with warts; as, a warty leaf. 
Warye,v. t., To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex. 
Washy,a., Watery; damp; soft.
Waste,a., Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal; gloomy; cheerless. 
Watch,v. i., The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night. 
Water,n., The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc. 
Waved,imp. & p. p., of Wave
Waver,v. i., To play or move to and fro; to move one way and the other; hence, to totter; to reel; to swing; to flutter. 
Wavey,n., The snow goose.
Waxed,imp., of Wax
Waxen,, of Wax
Waxed,imp. & p. p., of Wax
Waxen,a., Made of wax.
Wayed,a., Used to the way; broken.
Weald,n., A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names. 
Weary,superl., Having the strength exhausted by toil or exertion; worn out in respect to strength, endurance, etc.; tired; fatigued. 
Weasy,a., Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous.
Woven,p. p., of Weave
Weave,v. t., To unite, as threads of any kind, in such a manner as to form a texture; to entwine or interlace into a fabric; as, to weave wool, silk, etc.; hence, to unite by close connection or intermixture; to unite intimately. 
Webby,a., Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs.
Weber,n., The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp/re. 
Weder,n., Weather.
Wedge,n., A piece of metal, or other hard material, thick at one end, and tapering to a thin edge at the other, used in splitting wood, rocks, etc., in raising heavy bodies, and the like. It is one of the six elementary machines called the mechanical powers. See Illust. of Mechanical powers, under Mechanical. 
Wedgy,a., Like a wedge; wedge-shaped.
Weedy,superl., Of or pertaining to weeds; consisting of weeds.
Weely,, A kind of trap or snare for fish, made of twigs. 
Weigh,n., A corruption of Way, used only in the phrase under weigh. 
Weird,n., Fate; destiny; one of the Fates, or Norns; also, a prediction. 
Weism,n., Same as Wegotism.
Weive,v. t., See Waive.
Wekau,n., A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies
Welch,a., See Welsh.
Welew,v. t., To welk, or wither. 
We'll,, Contraction for we will or we shall.
Welsh,a., Of or pertaining to Wales, or its inhabitants. 
Welte,, imp. of Weld, to wield. 
Wench,n., A young woman; a girl; a maiden.
Wende,, imp. of Wene.
Wends,n. pl., A Slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists. 
Wenny,a., Having the nature of a wen; resembling a wen; as, a wennish excrescence. 
Wepen,n., Weapon.
Werke,v., See Work.
Werre,n., War.
Werst,n., See Verst.
Wesil,n., See Weasand.
Westy,a., Dizzy; giddy.
Wevil,n., See Weevil.
Weyle,v. t. & i., To wail.
Weyve,v. t., To waive.
Whaap,n., The European curlew; -- called also awp, whaup, great whaup, and stock whaup. 
Whack,v. t., To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; to thrash; to make with whacks.
Whala,v. t., To lash with stripes; to wale; to thrash; to drub.
Whale,n., Any aquatic mammal of the order Cetacea, especially any one of the large species, some of which become nearly one hundred feet long. Whales are hunted chiefly for their oil and baleen, or whalebone. 
Whall,n., A light color of the iris in horses; wall-eye.
Whame,n., A breeze fly.
Whang,n., A leather thong.
Wharf,n., A structure or platform of timber, masonry, iron, earth, or other material, built on the shore of a harbor, river, canal, or the like, and usually extending from the shore to deep water, so that vessels may lie close alongside to receive and discharge cargo, passengers, etc.; a quay; a pier. 
Wharl,n., Alt. of Wharling
Wharp,n., A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder. 
Whaul,n., Same as Whall.
Whaup,n., See Whaap.
Wheal,n., A pustule; a whelk.
Wheat,n., A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare
Wheel,n., A circular frame turning about an axis; a rotating disk, whether solid, or a frame composed of an outer rim, spokes or radii, and a central hub or nave, in which is inserted the axle, -- used for supporting and conveying vehicles, in machinery, and for various purposes; as, the wheel of a wagon, of a locomotive, of a mill, of a watch, etc. 
Wheen,n., A quantity; a goodly number.
Wheft,n., See Waft, n., 4. 
Whelk,n., Any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America, and much used as food in Europe. 
Whelm,v. t., To cover with water or other fluid; to cover by immersion in something that envelops on all sides; to overwhelm; to ingulf.
Whelp,n., One of the young of a dog or a beast of prey; a puppy; a cub; as, a lion's whelps. 
Where,pron. & conj., Whether.
Which,a., Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who.
Whiff,n., A sudden expulsion of air from the mouth; a quick puff or slight gust, as of air or smoke. 
While,n., Space of time, or continued duration, esp. when short; a time; as, one while we thought him innocent. 
Whilk,n., A kind of mollusk, a whelk. 
Whine,v. i., To utter a plaintive cry, as some animals; to moan with a childish noise; to complain, or to tell of sorrow, distress, or the like, in a plaintive, nasal tone; hence, to complain or to beg in a mean, unmanly way; to moan basely. 
Whipt,imp. & p. p., Whipped.
Whirl,v. t., To turn round rapidly; to cause to rotate with velocity; to make to revolve.
Whisk,n., A game at cards; whist.
Whisp,n., See Wisp.
Whist,interj., Be silent; be still; hush; silence.
White,superl., Reflecting to the eye all the rays of the spectrum combined; not tinted with any of the proper colors or their mixtures; having the color of pure snow; snowy; -- the opposite of black or dark; as, white paper; a white skin. 
Whole,a., Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all the parts; free from deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the whole solar system; the whole army; the whole nation. 
Whoop,n., The hoopoe.
Whoot,v. i., To hoot.
Whore,n., A woman who practices unlawful sexual commerce with men, especially one who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a harlot. 
Whorl,n. & v., A circle of two or more leaves, flowers, or other organs, about the same part or joint of a stem. 
Whort,n., The whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a
Whose,pron., The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which. 
Whoso,pron., Whosoever.
Whurt,n., See Whort.
Wicke,a., Wicked.
Widdy,n., A rope or halter made of flexible twigs, or withes, as of birch. 
Widen,v. t., To make wide or wider; to extend in breadth; to increase the width of; as, to widen a field; to widen a breach; to widen a stocking. 
Widow,n., A woman who has lost her husband by death, and has not married again; one living bereaved of a husband. 
Width,n., The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door. 
Widwe,n., A widow.
Wield,v. t., To govern; to rule; to keep, or have in charge; also, to possess. 
Wiery,a., Wet; moist; marshy.
Wives,pl. , of Wife
Wigan,n., A kind of canvaslike cotton fabric, used to stiffen and protect the lower part of trousers and of the skirts of women's dresses, etc.; -- so called from Wigan, the name of a town in Lancashire, England. 
Wight,n., Weight.
Wikke,a., Wicked.
Would,imp., of Will
Willy,n., A large wicker basket.
Wilne,v. t., To wish; to desire.
Wilwe,n., Willow.
Wince,v. i., To shrink, as from a blow, or from pain; to flinch; to start back. 
Winch,v. i., To wince; to shrink; to kick with impatience or uneasiness.
Wound,imp. & p. p., of Wind
Windy,superl., Consisting of wind; accompanied or characterized by wind; exposed to wind.
Wingy,a., Having wings; rapid.
Winze,n., A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation. 
Wiped,imp. & p. p., of Wipe
Wiper,n., One who, or that which, wipes. 
Wired,imp. & p. p., of Wire
Wisly,adv., Certainly.
Wisse,a., To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct.
Witch,n., A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper. 
Witen,, pl. pres. of Wit.
Withe,n., A flexible, slender twig or branch used as a band; a willow or osier twig; a withy. 
Withy,n., The osier willow (Salix viminalis
Witts,n., Tin ore freed from earthy matter by stamping.
Witty,n., Possessed of wit; knowing; wise; skillful; judicious; clever; cunning.
Wived,imp. & p. p., of Wive
Wiver,n., Alt. of Wivern
Wives,n., pl. of Wife.
Wizen,v. i., To wither; to dry.
Woald,n., See Weld.
Woden,n., A deity corresponding to Odin, the supreme deity of the Scandinavians. Wednesday is named for him. See Odin. 
Woful,a., Full of woe; sorrowful; distressed with grief or calamity; afflicted; wretched; unhappy; sad.
Wolde,, imp. of Will. See Would.
Wolle,n., Wool.
Women,pl. , of Woman
Woman,n., An adult female person; a grown-up female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female person. 
Womby,a., Capacious.
Women,n., pl. of Woman.
Won't,, A colloquial contraction of woll not. Will not. See Will.
Wooed,imp. & p. p., of Woo
Woody,a., Abounding with wood or woods; as, woody land. 
Wooer,v. t., One who wooes; one who courts or solicits in love; a suitor.
Woofy,a., Having a close texture; dense; as, a woofy cloud. 
Woold,v. t., To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mast or yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has been fished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it. 
Woosy,a., Oozy; wet.
Wootz,n., A species of steel imported from the East Indies, valued for making edge tools; Indian steel. It has in combination a minute portion of alumina and silica. 
Wopen,p. p., Wept.
Wordy,superl., Of or pertaining to words; consisting of words; verbal; as, a wordy war. 
World,n., The earth and the surrounding heavens; the creation; the system of created things; existent creation; the universe.
Wormy,superl., Containing a worm; abounding with worms.
Worry,v. t., To harass by pursuit and barking; to attack repeatedly; also, to tear or mangle with the teeth. 
Worse,compar., Bad, ill, evil, or corrupt, in a greater degree; more bad or evil; less good; specifically, in poorer health; more sick; -- used both in a physical and moral sense. 
Worst,a., Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense. See Worse. 
Worth,v. i., To be; to become; to betide; -- now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative. Woe be to the day, woe be to the man, etc., are equivalent phrases. 
Would,v. t., Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present. See 2d & 3d Will. 
Wound,, imp. & p. p. of Wind to twist, and Wind to sound by blowing. 
Woven,, p. p. of Weave.
Wowke,n., Week.
Woxen,, p. p. of Wax.
Wrack,n., A thin, flying cloud; a rack. 
Wrapt,, of Wrap
Wrath,a., Violent anger; vehement exasperation; indignation; rage; fury; ire.
Wrawl,v. i., To cry, as a cat; to waul. 
Wreak,v. i., To reck; to care.
Wreck,v. t. & n., See 2d & 3d Wreak.
Wreke,v. t., Alt. of Wreeke
Wrest,v. t., To turn; to twist; esp., to twist or extort by violence; to pull of force away by, or as if by, violent wringing or twisting. 
Wrung,imp. & p. p., of Wring
Wring,v. t., To twist and compress; to turn and strain with violence; to writhe; to squeeze hard; to pinch; as, to wring clothes in washing. 
Wrist,n., The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and the arm; the carpus. See Carpus. 
Wrote,imp., of Write
Write,v. t., To set down, as legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures. 
Wrong,, imp. of Wring. Wrung.
Wroot,, imp. of Write. Wrote.
Wrote,v. i., To root with the snout. See 1st Root.
Wroth,a., Full of wrath; angry; incensed; much exasperated; wrathful.
Wrung,, imp. & p. p. of Wring.
Wried,imp. & p. p., of Wry
Wuste,, imp. of Wit.
Wythe,n., Same as Withe, n., 4. 
Wyten,, pl. pres. of Wit.
Xebec,n., A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly armed and used by corsairs. 
Xenia,pl. , of Xenium
Xenyl,n., The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds.
Xeres,n., Sherry. See Sherry.
Xerif,n., A shereef.
Xylem,n., That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloem. 
Xylic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene. 
Xylol,n., Same as Xylene.
Xylyl,n., Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes.
Xyris,n., A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States. 
Yacca,n., A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus coriaceus, and P. Purdicanus
Yacht,n., A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing, etc. 
Yager,n., In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army. 
Yakin,n., A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor
Yalah,n., The oil of the mahwa tree.
Yamma,n., The llama.
Yapon,n., Same as Yaupon.
Yarke,n., Same as Saki.
Yaulp,v. i., To yaup.
Yawed,imp. & p. p., of Yaw
Ydrad,p. p., Dreaded.
Yeara,n., The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba
Yearn,v. t., To pain; to grieve; to vex.
Yeast,n., The foam, or troth (top yeast
Yeman,n., A yeoman.
Yerba,n., An herb; a plant.
Yerne,a., Eagerly; briskly; quickly.
Yerst,adv., See Erst.
Yesty,a., See Yeasty.
Yeven,p. p., Given.
Yewen,a., Made of yew; as, yewen bows. 
Yezdi,n., Same as Izedi.
Yfere,adv., Together. See Ifere.
Yield,v. t., To give in return for labor expended; to produce, as payment or interest on what is expended or invested; to pay; as, money at interest yields six or seven per cent. 
Ylike,a. & adv., Like; alike.
Yodel,v. t. & i., Alt. of Yodle
Yodle,v. t. & i., To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto, to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble. 
Yodel,n., Alt. of Yodle
Yodle,n., A song sung by yodeling, as by the Swiss mountaineers. 
Yojan,n., A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but usually about five. 
Yoked,imp. & p. p., of Yoke
Yokel,n., A country bumpkin.
Young,superl., Not long born; still in the first part of life; not yet arrived at adolescence, maturity, or age; not old; juvenile; -- said of animals; as, a young child; a young man; a young fawn. 
Yours,pron., See the Note under Your.
Youth,pl. , of Youth
Youze,n., The cheetah.
Ypres,, Fine bobbin lace made at Ypres in Belgium, usually exactly like Valenciennes lace. 
Yraft,p. p., Bereft.
Ysame,adv., Together.
Yucca,n., See Flicker, n., 2. 
Yufts,n., Russia leather.
Yulan,n., A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua
Yumas,n. pl., A tribe of Indians native of Arizona and the adjacent parts of Mexico and California. They are agricultural, and cultivate corn, wheat, barley, melons, etc. 
Yupon,n., Same as Yaupon.
Zacco,n., See Zocco.
Zambo,n., The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo. 
Zamia,n., A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low palms, but with exogenous wood. See Coontie, and Illust. of Strobile. 
Zante,n., See Zantewood.
Zayat,n., A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc. 
Zebec,n., See Xebec.
Zebra,n., Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands. 
Zebub,n., A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle. 
Zemni,n., The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus
Zenik,n., See Zenick.
Zerda,n., The fennec.
Zeros,pl. , of Zero
Zibet,n., Alt. of Zibeth
Ziega,n., Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation. 
Zilla,n., A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla myagroides
Zinky,a., See Zincky.
Zizel,n., The suslik.
Zocle,n., Same as Socle.
Zocco,n., Alt. of Zoccolo
Zohar,n., A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Modern critics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century. 
Zoide,n., See Meride.
Zokor,n., An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax
Zonae,pl. , of Zona
Zonal,a., Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones.
Zonar,n., A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans.
Zoned,a., Wearing a zone, or girdle. 
Zooid,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, an animal. 
Zoril,n., Same as Zorilla.
Zuche,n., A stump of a tree.
Zulus,n. pl., The most important tribe belonging to the Kaffir race. They inhabit a region on the southeast coast of Africa, but formerly occupied a much more extensive country. They are noted for their warlike disposition, courage, and military skill. 
Zumic,n., Alt. of Zumometer
Zu/is,n. pl., A tribe of Pueblo Indians occupying a village in New Mexico, on the Zu/i River. 
Zymic,a., Pertaining to, or produced by, fermentation; -- formerly, by confusion, used to designate lactic acid. 
