Abay,n., Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.
Abba,n., Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch. 
Abbe,n., The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress. 
Abed,adv., In bed, or on the bed. 
Abet,v. t., To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection. 
Abib,n., The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan. 
Abid,, of Abide
Abit,, 3d sing. pres. of Abide.
Able,superl., Fit; adapted; suitable.
Ably,adv., In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said. 
Abox,adv. & a., Braced aback.
ical,a., Relating to the patriarch Abraham.
Abut,v. i., To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road. 
Abye,v. t. & i., To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.
Aces,pl. , of Ace
Ache,n., A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild celery, parsley. 
Acid,a., Sour, sharp, or biting to the taste; tart; having the taste of vinegar: as, acid fruits or liquors. Also fig.: Sour-tempered. 
Acme,n., The top or highest point; the culmination.
Acne,n., A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the sebaceous glands. 
Acre,n., Any field of arable or pasture land.
Adam,n., The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of the human race. 
Adar,n., The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March. 
Adaw,v. t., To subdue; to daunt.
Adit,n., An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel. 
Adry,a., In a dry or thirsty condition.
Adze,n., A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching blade set at right angles to the handle. It is used for chipping or slicing away the surface of wood. 
Aeon,n., A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the Deity. See Eon. 
Aery,n., An aerie.
Afar,adv., At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw him afar off. 
Afer,n., The southwest wind.
Affy,v. t., To confide (one's self to, or in
Agha,n., In Turkey, a commander or chief officer. It is used also as a title of respect. 
Aged,imp. & p. p., of Age
Agen,adv. & prep., See Again.
Agio,n., The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.
Agni,pl. , of Agnus
Agog,a. & adv., In eager desire; eager; astir.
Agon,n., A contest for a prize at the public games.
Agre,adv., Alt. of Agree
Ague,n., An acute fever.
Ahem,interj., An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.
Ahey,interj., Hey; ho.
Ahoy,interj., A term used in hailing; as,   Ship ahoy.   
Aiel,n., See Ayle.
Aino,n., One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and short, with hairy bodies. 
Airy,a., Consisting of air; as, an airy substance; the airy parts of bodies. 
Ajar,adv., Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar. 
Ajog,adv., On the jog.
Akin,a., Of the same kin; related by blood; -- used of persons; as, the two families are near akin. 
Alae,pl. , of Ala
Alan,n., A wolfhound.
Alar,a., Pertaining to, or having, wings. 
Alas,interj., An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the day, like alack a day, or alas the white. 
Albe,conj., Alt. of Albee
Alco,n., A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines. 
Alee,adv., On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close to the lee side. 
Alew,n., Halloo.
Alfa,n., Alt. of Alfa grass
Alga,n., A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse, sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervae, etc. 
Alit,, of Alight
Alla,, With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time signature by /. 
Ally,v. t., To unite, or form a connection between, as between families by marriage, or between princes and states by treaty, league, or confederacy; -- often followed by to or with. 
Alma,n., Alt. of Almah
Alme,n., Alt. of Almeh
Alms,n. sing. & pl., Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity. 
Aloe,n., The wood of the agalloch.
Alow,adv., Below; in a lower part.
Also,adv. & conj., In like manner; likewise.
Alto,n., Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor, voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices, between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies the tenor. 
Alum,n., A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element (esp. an alkali metal
Ambo,n., A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian churches. 
Amir,n., Emir.
Amel,v. t., Enamel.
Amen,interj., adv., & n., An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief. When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily. 
Amia,n., A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie, and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin. 
Amic,a., Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix; as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. 
Amid,prep., See Amidst.
Amir,n., Same as Ameer.
Amit,v. t., To lose.
Amma,n., An abbes or spiritual mother.
Amyl,n., A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc. 
Anal,a., Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands. 
Anan,interj., An expression equivalent to What did you say? Sir? Eh?
Anas,n., A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain species of fresh-water ducks. 
Anes,adv., Once.
Anet,n., The herb dill, or dillseed. 
Anew,adv., Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew. 
Anil,n., A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil
Anna,n., An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or about 2/ cents. 
Anno,, In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887. 
Anoa,n., A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis
Anon,adv., Straightway; at once.
Ansa,n., A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.
An't,, A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now usually written ain't.
Anta,n., A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base. 
Ante,n., Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante
Anti,, A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic. 
Anus,n., The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which the excrements are expelled. 
Apar,n., Alt. of Apara
Aped,imp. & p. p., of Ape
Aper,n., One who apes.
Apex,n., The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf. 
Apis,n., A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the common honeybee (Apis mellifica
Apod,n., Alt. of Apodal
Apse,n., A projecting part of a building, esp. of a church, having in the plan a polygonal or semicircular termination, and, most often, projecting from the east end. In early churches the Eastern apse was occupied by seats for the bishop and clergy. 
Apus,n., A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.
Aqua,n., Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry, in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed. 
Arab,n., One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria, Northern Africa, etc. 
Arak,n., Same as Arrack.
Arch,n., Any part of a curved line.
Area,n., Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building. 
Aret,v. t., To reckon; to ascribe; to impute.
Arew,adv., In a row.
Argo,n., The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece. 
Aria,n., An air or song; a melody; a tune.
Arid,a., Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren.
Aril,n., Alt. of Arillus
Arms,n., Instruments or weapons of offense or defense.
Army,n., A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under proper officers. 
Arna,n., Alt. of Arnee
Arow,adv., In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. 
Arse,n., The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom. 
Arum,n., A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The cuckoopint of the English is an example. 
Asci,n. pl., See Ascus.
Ashy,a., Pertaining to, or composed of, ashes; filled, or strewed with, ashes. 
Asse,n., A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama
Atmo,n., The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0? Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris. 
Atom,n., An ultimate indivisible particle of matter.
Atop,adv., On or at the top.
Atte,, At the.
Atwo,adv., In two; in twain; asunder.
Aube,n., An alb.
Auld,a., Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky
Auln,n., An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.
Aune,n., A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at Paris, 0.95 of an English ell
Aunt,n., The sister of one's father or mother; -- correlative to nephew or niece. Also applied to an uncle's wife.
Aura,n., Any subtile, invisible emanation, effluvium, or exhalation from a substance, as the aroma of flowers, the odor of the blood, a supposed fertilizing emanation from the pollen of flowers, etc. 
Avel,v. t., To pull away.
Aver,n., A work horse, or working ox. 
Aves,n. pl., The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.
Avid,a., Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy.
Avie,adv., Emulously.
Avis,n., Advice; opinion; deliberation.
Avow,v. t., To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes. 
Away,adv., From a place; hence.
Awed,imp. & p. p., of Awe
Awny,a., Having awns; bearded.
Awry,adv. & a., Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted; obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry. 
Axal,a., [See Axial.]
Axil,n., The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs. 
Axis,n., The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata
Axes,pl. , of Axis
Axis,n., A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically arranged. 
Axle,n., The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves with a wheel. 
Ayah,n., A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. 
Ayen,adv. & prep., Alt. of Ayeins
Ayle,n., A grandfather.
Ayme,n., The utterance of the ejaculation   Ay me !   [Obs.] See Ay, interj. 
Ayry,n., See Aerie.
Azym,n., Alt. of Azyme
Baas,pl. , of Baa
Baal,n., The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.
Baba,n., A kind of plum cake.
Babe,n., An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.
Babu,n., A Hindoo gentleman; a native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire. 
Baby,n., An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.
Bace,n., a., & v., See Base. 
Back,n., The side or part of something that is away from the spectator or from the direction in which it moves or faces; the rear.. 
Bade,, A form of the pat tense of Bid.
Baff,n., A blow; a stroke.
Baft,n., Same as Bafta.
Bail,n., A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat.
Bain,n., A bath; a bagnio.
Bait,v. i., Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals, by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net. 
Bake,v. t., To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples. 
Bald,a., Destitute of the natural or common covering on the head or top, as of hair, feathers, foliage, trees, etc.; as, a bald head; a bald oak. 
Bale,n., A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw / hay, etc., put up compactly for transportation. 
Balk,v. i., A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside. 
Ball,n., Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow. 
Balm,n., An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.
Banc,n., Alt. of Bank
Bank,n., A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court. 
Band,v. t., A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied, bound together, or confined; a fetter. 
Bane,n., That which destroys life, esp. poison of a deadly quality. 
Bang,v. t., To beat, as with a club or cudgel; to treat with violence; to handle roughly. 
Bank,n., A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth; as, a bank of clouds; a bank of snow. 
Barb,n., Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it. 
Bard,n., A professional poet and singer, as among the ancient Celts, whose occupation was to compose and sing verses in honor of the heroic achievements of princes and brave men. 
Bare,a., Without clothes or covering; stripped of the usual covering; naked; as, his body is bare; the trees are bare. 
Bard,n., The exterior covering of the trunk and branches of a tree; the rind.
Bark,v. t., To strip the bark from; to peel.
Barm,n., Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting, and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast. 
Barn,n., A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and other productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barn is often used for stables. 
Base,a., Of little, or less than the usual, height; of low growth; as, base shrubs. 
Bash,v. t. & i., To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of countenance.
Bask,v. t., To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.
Bass,pl. , of Bass
Bast,n., The inner fibrous bark of various plants; esp. of the lime tree; hence, matting, cordage, etc., made therefrom. 
Bate,n., Strife; contention.
Bath,n., The act of exposing the body, or part of the body, for purposes of cleanliness, comfort, health, etc., to water, vapor, hot air, or the like; as, a cold or a hot bath; a medicated bath; a steam bath; a hip bath. 
Batz,n., A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current in some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about four cents. 
Bauk,n. & v., Alt. of Baulk
Bawd,n., A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; -- usually applied to a woman. 
Bawl,v. i., To cry out with a loud, full sound; to cry with vehemence, as in calling or exultation; to shout; to vociferate. 
Bawn,n., An inclosure with mud or stone walls, for keeping cattle; a fortified inclosure. 
Baya,n., The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus
Bays,n., Alt. of Bayze
Been,p. p., of Be
Bead,n., A prayer.
Beak,n., The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the food and habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification of birds. 
Beal,v. i., To gather matter; to swell and come to a head, as a pimple. 
Beam,n., Any large piece of timber or iron long in proportion to its thickness, and prepared for use. 
Bean,n., A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs. 
Bore,imp., of Bear
Bare,v, uncover (a part of the body or other thing) and expose it to view.
Born,p. p., Come into existence as a result of birth
Bear,v. t., To support or sustain; to hold up.
Bere,n., Barley; the six-rowed barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly the former (Hord. vulgare
Beat,imp., Strike (a person or an animal) repeatedly and violently so as to hurt or injure them.
Beau,n., A man who takes great care to dress in the latest fashion; a dandy.
Beck,n., See Beak.
Bede,v. t., To pray; also, to offer; to proffer. 
Beef,n., An animal of the genus Bos, especially the common species, B. taurus, including the bull, cow, and ox, in their full grown state; esp., an ox or cow fattened for food. 
Beem,n., A trumpet.
Been,, The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.
Beer,n., A fermented liquor made from any malted grain, but commonly from barley malt, with hops or some other substance to impart a bitter flavor. 
Beet,n., A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible root the first year and seed the second year. 
Bete,v. t., To mend; to repair.
Beet,, Same as Beetrave.
Bega,n., See Bigha.
Behn,n., The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury. 
Belk,v. t., To vomit.
Bell,n., A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a ringing sound on being struck. 
Belt,n., That which engirdles a person or thing; a band or girdle; as, a lady's belt; a sword belt. 
Bema,n., A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly.
Bent,, of Bend
Bend,v. t., To strain or move out of a straight line; to crook by straining; to make crooked; to curve; to make ready for use by drawing into a curve; as, to bend a bow; to bend the knee. 
Bene,n., See Benne.
Bent,, imp. & p. p. of Bend.
Bere,v. t., To pierce.
Berg,n., A large mass or hill, as of ice. 
Berm,n., Alt. of Berme
Best,a., Having good qualities in the highest degree; most good, kind, desirable, suitable, etc.; most excellent; as, the best man; the best road; the best cloth; the best abilities. 
Bete,v. t., To better; to mend. See Beete.
Bevy,n., A company; an assembly or collection of persons, especially of ladies. 
Bias,n., A weight on the side of the ball used in the game of bowls, or a tendency imparted to the ball, which turns it from a straight line. 
Bibb,n., A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3. 
Bice,n., Alt. of Bise
Bise,n., A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice. 
Bade,imp., of Bid
Bide,v. t., To dwell; to inhabit; to abide; to stay.
Bier,n., A handbarrow or portable frame on which a corpse is placed or borne to the grave.
Bigg,n., Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind. 
Biga,n., A two-horse chariot.
Bigg,n. & v., See Big, n. & v. 
Bike,n., A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm. 
Bikh,n., The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself. 
Bile,n., A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in reaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, where it aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents are the bile salts, and coloring matters. 
Bilk,v. t., To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor. 
Bill,n., A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal. 
Bind,v. t., To tie, or confine with a cord, band, ligature, chain, etc.; to fetter; to make fast; as, to bind grain in bundles; to bind a prisoner. 
Bine,n., The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing plant.
Bing,n., A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood. 
Bink,n., A bench.
Bion,p. pr., The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and independence of function, in distinction from the morphological individual or morphon. 
Bird,n., Orig., a chicken; the young of a fowl; a young eaglet; a nestling; and hence, a feathered flying animal (see 2
Birk,n., A birch tree.
Birl,v. t. & i., To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin.
Birr,v. i., To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in motion. 
Birt,n., A fish of the turbot kind; the brill.
Bisa,, See Oryx.
Bise,n., A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as the mistral. 
Bish,n., Same as Bikh.
Bisk,n., Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.
Bite,v. t., To seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man. 
Bitt,n., See Bitts.
Blab,v., To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to publish (secrets or trifles
Blae,a., Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored.
Blat,v. i., To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless noise; to talk inconsiderately. 
Blay,a., A fish. See Bleak, n. 
Blea,n., The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the alburnum or sapwood.
Bleb,n., A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc. 
Blek,v. t., To blacken; also, to defile. 
Bled,, imp. & p. p. of Bleed.
Blee,n., Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form.
Bled,imp. & p. p., of Bleed
Blet,n., A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.
Blew,, imp. of Blow.
Blin,v. t. & i., To stop; to cease; to desist.
Blob,n., Something blunt and round; a small drop or lump of something viscid or thick; a drop; a bubble; a blister.
Blot,v. t., To spot, stain, or bespatter, as with ink. 
Blew,imp., of Blow
Blow,v. i., To flower; to blossom; to bloom.
Blew,imp., of Blow
Blow,v. i., To produce a current of air; to move, as air, esp. to move rapidly or with power; as, the wind blows. 
Blub,v. t. & i., To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. 
Blue,superl., Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire; blue violets. 
Blur,v. t., To render obscure by making the form or outline of confused and uncertain, as by soiling; to smear; to make indistinct and confused; as, to blur manuscript by handling it while damp; to blur the impression of a woodcut by an excess of ink. 
Boas,pl. , of Boa
Boar,n., The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog. 
Boat,n., A small open vessel, or water craft, usually moved by cars or paddles, but often by a sail. 
Boce,n., A European fish (Box vulgaris
Bock,, A strong beer, originally made in Bavaria. 
Bode,v. t., To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; to portend to presage; to foreshow. 
Body,n., The material organized substance of an animal, whether living or dead, as distinguished from the spirit, or vital principle; the physical person. 
Boer,n., A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent.
Boes,3d sing. pr., Behoves or behooves.
Bogy,n., A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear.
Boil,v., To be agitated, or tumultuously moved, as a liquid by the generation and rising of bubbles of steam (or vapor
Bois,, The Osage orange (Maclura aurantiaca
Boke,v. t. & i., To poke; to thrust.
Bold,n., Forward to meet danger; venturesome; daring; not timorous or shrinking from risk; brave; courageous.
Bole,n., The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it. 
Boll,n., The pod or capsule of a plant, as of flax or cotton; a pericarp of a globular form. 
Boln,v. i., To swell; to puff.
Bolt,n., A shaft or missile intended to be shot from a crossbow or catapult, esp. a short, stout, blunt-headed arrow; a quarrel; an arrow, or that which resembles an arrow; a dart. 
Bomb,n., A great noise; a hollow sound.
Bona,, In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really; actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bona fide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction. 
Bond,n., That which binds, ties, fastens, or confines, or by which anything is fastened or bound, as a cord, chain, etc.; a band; a ligament; a shackle or a manacle. 
Bone,n., The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone. 
Bons,pl. , of Bon vivant
Bony,a., Consisting of bone, or of bones; full of bones; pertaining to bones. 
Book,n., A collection of sheets of paper, or similar material, blank, written, or printed, bound together; commonly, many folded and bound sheets containing continuous printing or writing. 
Boom,n., A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc. 
Boon,n., A prayer or petition.
Boor,n., A husbandman; a peasant; a rustic; esp. a clownish or unrefined countryman.
Boot,n., Remedy; relief; amends; reparation; hence, one who brings relief. 
Bord,n., A board; a table.
Bore,v. t., To perforate or penetrate, as a solid body, by turning an auger, gimlet, drill, or other instrument; to make a round hole in or through; to pierce; as, to bore a plank. 
Born,v. t., Brought forth, as an animal; brought into life; introduced by birth. 
Bort,n., Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work. 
Bosa,n., A drink, used in the East. See Boza. 
Bosh,n., Figure; outline; show.
Bosk,n., A thicket; a small wood.
Boss,n., Any protuberant part; a round, swelling part or body; a knoblike process; as, a boss of wood. 
Bote,n., Compensation; amends; satisfaction; expiation; as, man bote, a compensation or a man slain. 
Both,a. or pron., The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either. 
Bots,n. pl., The larvae of several species of botfly, especially those larvae which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments. 
Boud,n., A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc. 
Bouk,n., The body.
Boul,n., A curved handle.
Boun,a., Ready; prepared; destined; tending.
Bour,n., A chamber or a cottage.
Bout,n., As much of an action as is performed at one time; a going and returning, as of workmen in reaping, mowing, etc.; a turn; a round. 
Bowl,n., A concave vessel of various forms (often approximately hemispherical
Boza,n., An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water. 
Brad,n., A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the top on one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flat circular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishing nail, with a countersunk head. 
Brae,n., A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill.
Brag,v. i., To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self, in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talk boastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one's exploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends to do. 
ical,a., Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines and worship.
Bran,n., The broken coat of the seed of wheat, rye, or other cereal grain, separated from the flour or meal by sifting or bolting; the coarse, chaffy part of ground grain. 
Brat,n., A coarse garment or cloak; also, coarse clothing, in general. 
Bray,v. t., To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine. 
Bred,, imp. & p. p. of Breed.
Bren,v. t. & i., Alt. of Brenne
Bret,n., See Birt.
Brew,v. t., To boil or seethe; to cook.
Brid,n., A bird.
Brig,n., A bridge.
Brim,n., The rim, border, or upper edge of a cup, dish, or any hollow vessel used for holding anything. 
Brin,n., One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are larger and longer, and are called panaches. 
Brit,n., Alt. of Britt
Brob,n., A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end of an abutting timber to prevent its slipping. 
Brog,n., A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle, or a small sharp stick. 
Brow,n., The prominent ridge over the eye, with the hair that covers it, forming an arch above the orbit. 
Bruh,n., The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus.
Brun,n., Same as Brun, a brook. 
Brut,n., To browse.
Buat,n., A lantern; also, the moon. 
Bubo,n., An inflammation, with enlargement, of a lymphatic gland, esp. in the groin, as in syphilis. 
Buck,n., Lye or suds in which cloth is soaked in the operation of bleaching, or in which clothes are washed. 
Bude,, A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners (the inner rising above the outer
Buff,n., A sort of leather, prepared from the skin of the buffalo, dressed with oil, like chamois; also, the skins of oxen, elks, and other animals, dressed in like manner. 
Bufo,n., A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.
Buhl,n., Alt. of Buhlwork
Buke,, See Book muslin.
Bulb,n., A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below the ground (usually below
Bulk,n., Magnitude of material substance; dimensions; mass; size; as, an ox or ship of great bulk. 
Bull,n., The male of any species of cattle (Bovidae
Bump,v. t., To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to thump; as, to bump the head against a wall. 
Bunn,n., A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of sugar and milk on the top crust.
Bund,n., League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.
Bung,n., The large stopper of the orifice in the bilge of a cask.
Bunk,n., A wooden case or box, which serves for a seat in the daytime and for a bed at night. 
Bunn,n., See Bun.
Bunt,n., A fungus (Ustilago foetida
Buoy,n., A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water, as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. 
Burr,n., Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and burdock. Also, any weed which bears burs. 
Burg,n., A fortified town.
Burh,n., See Burg.
Burl,v. t., To dress or finish up (cloth
Burn,v. t., To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood. 
Burr,n., A prickly seed vessel. See Bur, 1. 
Burt,n., See Birt.
Bury,n., A borough; a manor; as, the Bury of St. Edmond's 
Bush,n., A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest. 
Busk,n., A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other material, worn in the front of a corset. 
Buss,n., A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack.
Bust,n., A piece of sculpture representing the upper part of the human figure, including the head, shoulders, and breast. 
Busy,a., Engaged in some business; hard at work (either habitually or only for the time being
Butt,v. t., Alt. of But
Buzz,v. i., To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to speak with a low, humming voice. 
Byre,n., A cow house.
Byss,n., See Byssus, n., 1. 
Caas,n. sing. & pl., Case.
Cack,v. i., To ease the body by stool; to go to stool.
Cade,a., Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.
Cadi,n., An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village. 
Cady,n., See Cadie.
Caen,, A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen, France. 
Cafe,n., A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served. 
Cage,n., A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or metal, used for confining birds or other animals. 
Cake,n., A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake. 
Calf,n., The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also, the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and whale. 
Cali,n., The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu.
Calk,v. t., To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.
Call,v. t., To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to call a servant. 
Calm,n., Freedom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or absence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stillness; quiet; serenity. 
Calx,n., Quicklime.
Came,, imp. of Come.
Camp,n., The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc. 
Cand,n., Fluor spar. See Kand.
Cane,n., A name given to several peculiar palms, species of Calamus and Daemanorops, having very long, smooth flexible stems, commonly called rattans. 
Cant,n., A corner; angle; niche.
Cany,a., Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.
Cape,n., A piece or point of land, extending beyond the adjacent coast into the sea or a lake; a promontory; a headland. 
Card,n., A piece of pasteboard, or thick paper, blank or prepared for various uses; as, a playing card; a visiting card; a card of invitation; pl. a game played with cards. 
Care,n., A burdensome sense of responsibility; trouble caused by onerous duties; anxiety; concern; solicitude.
Carf,, pret. of Carve.
Cark,n., A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry.
Carl,n., A rude, rustic man; a churl. 
Carp,v. i., To talk; to speak; to prattle.
Cart,n., A common name for various kinds of vehicles, as a Scythian dwelling on wheels, or a chariot. 
Case,n., A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule
Cash,n., A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box. 
Cask,n., Same as Casque.
Cass,v. t., To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.
Cast,imp. & p. p., of Cast
tted,imp. & p. p., of Cat
Cata,, The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath, as in cathartic, catholic. 
Cate,n., Food. [Obs.] See Cates.
Cauf,n., A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water.
Cauk,n., Alt. of Cauker
Caul,n., A covering of network for the head, worn by women; also, a net. 
Cave,n., A hollow place in the earth, either natural or artificial; a subterraneous cavity; a cavern; a den. 
Cavy,n., A rodent of the genera Cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig (Cavia cobaya
Cawk,n., An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar. 
Cede,v. t., To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty. 
Ceil,v. t., To overlay or cover the inner side of the roof of; to furnish with a ceiling; as, to ceil a room. 
Cell,n., A very small and close apartment, as in a prison or in a monastery or convent; the hut of a hermit. 
Celt,n., One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the northern shores of France. 
Cent,n., A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred. 
Cere,n., The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey, parrots, and some other birds. See Beak. 
Cero,n., A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common cero (Scomberomorus caballa
Cess,n., A rate or tax.
Cest,n., A woman's girdle; a cestus.
Cete,n., One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea. 
Chab,n., The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus
Chak,v. i., To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle. 
Chad,n., See Shad.
Cham,v. t., To chew.
Chap,v. t., To cause to open in slits or chinks; to split; to cause the skin of to crack or become rough.
Char,n., Alt. of Charr
Chat,v. i., To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse without form or ceremony; to gossip.
Chaw,v. t., To grind with the teeth; to masticate, as food in eating; to chew, as the cud; to champ, as the bit. 
Chay,, The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, which yieds a durable red dyestuff. 
Chef,n., A chief of head person.
Ches,, pret. of Chese.
Chew,v. t., To bite and grind with the teeth; to masticate.
Chic,n., Good form; style.
Chin,n., The lower extremity of the face below the mouth; the point of the under jaw.
Chip,v. t., To cut small pieces from; to diminish or reduce to shape, by cutting away a little at a time; to hew. 
Chit,n., The embryo or the growing bud of a plant; a shoot; a sprout; as, the chits of Indian corn or of potatoes. 
Chop,v. t., To cut by striking repeatedly with a sharp instrument; to cut into pieces; to mince; -- often with up.
Choy,, See Chay root.
Chub,n., A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidae or Carp family. The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. In America the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, of the genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally to several very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc. 
Chud,v. t., To champ; to bite.
Chum,n., A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and intimate friend. 
Cill,n., See Sill., n. a foundation. 
Cima,n., A kind of molding. See Cyma.
Cion,n., See Scion.
Circ,n., An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus.
Cirl,, A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus
Cist,n., A box or chest. Specifically: (a
Cite,v. t., To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a court; to summon. 
City,n., A large town.
Cive,n., Same as Chive.
Cize,n., Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.
Clad,v.t, To clothe.
Clam,v. t., A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria
Clan,n., A tribe or collection of families, united under a chieftain, regarded as having the same common ancestor, and bearing the same surname; as, the clan of Macdonald. 
Clap,v. t., To strike; to slap; to strike, or strike together, with a quick motion, so, as to make a sharp noise; as, to clap one's hands; a clapping of wings. 
Claw,n., A sharp, hooked nail, as of a beast or bird. 
Clay,n., A soft earth, which is plastic, or may be molded with the hands, consisting of hydrous silicate of aluminium. It is the result of the wearing down and decomposition, in part, of rocks containing aluminous minerals, as granite. Lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, and other ingredients, are often present as impurities. 
Clee,n., A claw.
Clef,n., A character used in musical notation to determine the position and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.
Cleg,n., A small breeze or horsefly.
Clem,v. t. & i., To starve; to famish.
Clew,n., Alt. of Clue
Clue,n., A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself. 
Clew,n., To direct; to guide, as by a thread. 
Clio,n., The Muse who presided over history.
Clip,v. t., To embrace, hence; to encompass. 
Clod,n., A lump or mass, especially of earth, turf, or clay. 
Clog,v., That which hinders or impedes motion; hence, an encumbrance, restraint, or impediment, of any kind. 
Clot,n., A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum. 
Clad,, of Clothe
Cloy,v. t., To fill or choke up; to stop up; to clog.
Club,n., A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a weapon; a cudgel. 
Clue,n., A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as Clew.
Clum,interj., Silence; hush.
Coag,n., See Coak, a kind of tenon. 
Coak,n., See Coke, n. 
Coal,n., A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal. 
Coat,n., An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially, such a garment worn by men. 
Coax,v. t., To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or fondling; to wheedle; to soothe. 
Coca,n., The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca
Cock,n., The male of birds, particularly of gallinaceous or domestic fowls. 
Coco,, Alt. of Coco palm
Coda,n., A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition.
Code,n., A body of law, sanctioned by legislation, in which the rules of law to be specifically applied by the courts are set forth in systematic form; a compilation of laws by public authority; a digest. 
Coif,n., A cap.
Coil,v. t., To wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in use; the snake coiled itself before springing. 
Coin,n., A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wedge. See Coigne, and Quoin. 
Coir,n., A material for cordage, matting, etc., consisting of the prepared fiber of the outer husk of the cocoanut. 
Coit,n., A quoit.
Coke,n., Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where / smokeless fire is required. 
Cold,n., Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot; gelid; frigid. 
Cole,n., A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B. oleracea called rape and coleseed.
Coll,v. t., To embrace.
Colp,n., See Collop.
Colt,n., The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; -- sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female. Cf. Foal. 
Coly,n., Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit Africa.
Coma,n., A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person. See Carus.
Comb,n., An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place. 
Came,imp., of Come
Come,p. p., of Come
Cond,v. t., To con, as a ship. 
Cone,n., A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex. 
Cong,n., An abbreviation of Congius.
Conn,v. t., See Con, to direct a ship. 
ties,pl. , of Constitutionality
Cony,n., A rabbit, esp., the European rabbit (Lepus cuniculus
Cook,v. i., To make the noise of the cuckoo.
Cool,superl., Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth; producing or promoting coolness.
Coom,n., Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven. 
Coon,n., A raccoon. See Raccoon.
Coop,n., A barrel or cask for liquor.
Coot,n., A wading bird with lobate toes, of the genus Fulica. 
Cope,n., A covering for the head.
Cops,n., The connecting crook of a harrow.
Copy,n., An abundance or plenty of anything.
Cora,n., The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica
Corb,n., A basket used in coal mines, etc. see Corf. 
Cord,n., A string, or small rope, composed of several strands twisted together. 
Core,n., A body of individuals; an assemblage.
Cord,imp. & p. p., of Core
Core,v. t., To take out the core or inward parts of; as, to core an apple. 
Corf,n., A basket.
Cork,n., The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber
Corm,n., A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb. 
Corn,n., A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toes, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome. 
Coss,n., A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to two English miles. 
Cost,n., A rib; a side; a region or coast.
Cosy,a., See Cozy.
Cote,n., A cottage or hut.
Coup,n., A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force.
Cove,n., A retired nook; especially, a small, sheltered inlet, creek, or bay; a recess in the shore. 
Cows,pl. , of Cow
Kine,pl. , of Cow
Cowl,n., A monk's hood; -- usually attached to the gown. The name was also applied to the hood and garment together.
Coxa,n., The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.
Cozy,superl., Snug; comfortable; easy; contented.
Crab,n., One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body. 
Crag,n., A steep, rugged rock; a rough, broken cliff, or point of a rock, on a ledge. 
Cram,v. t., To press, force, or drive, particularly in filling, or in thrusting one thing into another; to stuff; to crowd; to fill to superfluity; as, to cram anything into a basket; to cram a room with people. 
Cran,n., Alt. of Crane
Craw,n., The crop of a bird.
Cray,n., Alt. of Crayer
Crew,n., The Manx shearwater.
Crib,n., A manger or rack; a feeding place for animals.
Cric,n., The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.
Crop,n., The pouchlike enlargement of the gullet of birds, serving as a receptacle for food; the craw. 
Crew,imp., of Crow
Crow,v. i., To make the shrill sound characteristic of a cock, either in joy, gayety, or defiance. 
Crud,n., See Curd.
Crup,a., Short; brittle; as, crup cake. 
Crus,n., That part of the hind limb between the femur, or thigh, and the ankle, or tarsus; the shank. 
Crut,n., The rough, shaggy part of oak bark. 
Crux,n., Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain.
Cube,n., A regular solid body, with six equal square sides. 
Cuca,n., See Coca.
Cuff,v. t., To strike; esp., to smite with the palm or flat of the hand; to slap. 
Cull,v. t., To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or collect; as, to cull flowers. 
Culm,n., The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo
Cult,n ., Attentive care; homage; worship.
Cund,v. t., To con (a ship
Curb,v. t., To bend or curve
Curd,n., The coagulated or thickened part of milk, as distinguished from the whey, or watery part. It is eaten as food, especially when made into cheese. 
Cure,n., Care, heed, or attention. 
Curl,n., To twist or form into ringlets; to crisp, as the hair. 
Curr,v. i., To coo.
Curt,a., Characterized by excessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as, curt limits; a curt answer. 
Cusk,n., A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme
Cusp,n., A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from an inner curve of tracery. 
Cute,a., Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning.
Cyma,n., A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is wavelike in form. 
Cyme,n., A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the opening of the blossoms. 
Cyon,n., See Cion, and Scion. 
Cyst,n., A pouch or sac without opening, usually membranous and containing morbid matter, which is accidentally developed in one of the natural cavities or in the substance of an organ. 
Czar,n., A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia.
Dabb,n., A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes
Dace,n., A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris
Dade,v. t., To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles. 
Dado,n., That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice (or surbase
Daff,v. t., To cast aside; to put off; to doff.
Daft,a., Stupid; foolish; idiotic; also, delirious; insane; as, he has gone daft. 
Dago,n., A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian
Dais,n., The high or principal table, at the end of a hall, at which the chief guests were seated; also, the chief seat at the high table. 
Dale,n., A low place between hills; a vale or valley.
Dalf,, imp. of Delve.
Dame,n., A mistress of a family, who is a lady; a woman in authority; especially, a lady. 
Damn,v. t., To condemn; to declare guilty; to doom; to adjudge to punishment; to sentence; to censure.
Damp,n., Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.
Dane,n., A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark. 
Dang,, imp. of Ding.
Dank,a., Damp; moist; humid; wet.
Dare,v. i., To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.
Darg,n., Alt. of Dargue
Dark,a., Destitute, or partially destitute, of light; not receiving, reflecting, or radiating light; wholly or partially black, or of some deep shade of color; not light-colored; as, a dark room; a dark day; dark cloth; dark paint; a dark complexion. 
Darn,v. t., To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread. 
Darr,n., The European black tern.
Dart,n., A pointed missile weapon, intended to be thrown by the hand; a short lance; a javelin; hence, any sharp-pointed missile weapon, as an arrow. 
Dase,v. t., See Daze.
Dash,v. t., To throw with violence or haste; to cause to strike violently or hastily; -- often used with against.
Data,n. pl., See Datum.
Date,n., The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself. 
Data,pl. , of Datum
Daub,v. t., To smear with soft, adhesive matter, as pitch, slime, mud, etc.; to plaster; to bedaub; to besmear. 
Dauk,v. t., See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush. 
Daun,n., A variant of Dan, a title of honor. 
Dauw,n., The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii
Davy,, The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors.
Dawe,n., Day.
Dawk,n., See Dak.
Dawn,v. i., To begin to grow light in the morning; to grow light; to break, or begin to appear; as, the day dawns; the morning dawns. 
Daze,v. t., To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb. 
Dead,a., Deprived of life; -- opposed to alive and living; reduced to that state of a being in which the organs of motion and life have irrevocably ceased to perform their functions; as, a dead tree; a dead man. 
Deaf,a., Wanting the sense of hearing, either wholly or in part; unable to perceive sounds; hard of hearing; as, a deaf man. 
Deal,n., A part or portion; a share; hence, an indefinite quantity, degree, or extent, degree, or extent; as, a deal of time and trouble; a deal of cold. 
Dean,n., A dignitary or presiding officer in certain ecclesiastical and lay bodies; esp., an ecclesiastical dignitary, subordinate to a bishop. 
Dear,superl., Bearing a high price; high-priced; costly; expensive.
Deas,n., See Dais.
Debt,n., That which is due from one person to another, whether money, goods, or services; that which one person is bound to pay to another, or to perform for his benefit; thing owed; obligation; liability. 
Deck,v. t., To cover; to overspread.
Dede,a., Dead.
Deed,a., Dead.
Deem,v., To decide; to judge; to sentence; to condemn.
Deep,superl., Extending far below the surface; of great perpendicular dimension (measured from the surface downward, and distinguished from high, which is measured upward
Deer,n. sing. & pl., Any animal; especially, a wild animal. 
Dees,n. pl., Dice.
Deev,n., See Dev.
Deft,a., Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat.
Defy,v. t., To renounce or dissolve all bonds of affiance, faith, or obligation with; to reject, refuse, or renounce. 
Degu,n., A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii
Deil,n., Devil; -- spelt also deel.
Deis,n., See Dais.
Dele,imperative sing., Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which has been put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus: /. 
Delf,n., A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch.
Dell,n., A small, retired valley; a ravine. 
Deme,n., A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece
Demi,n., See Demy, n. 
Demy,n., A printing and a writing paper of particular sizes. See under Paper.
Dent,n., A stroke; a blow.
Deny,v. t., To declare not to be true; to gainsay; to contradict; -- opposed to affirm, allow, or admit. 
Dere,v. t., To hurt; to harm; to injure.
Derf,a., Strong; powerful; fierce.
Derk,a., Dark.
Derm,v. t., The integument of animal; the skin.
Dern,n., A gatepost or doorpost.
Desk,n., A table, frame, or case, usually with sloping top, but often with flat top, for the use writers and readers. It often has a drawer or repository underneath. 
Dess,n., Dais.
Deva,n., A god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king.
Deve,a., Deaf.
Devi,n., ; fem. of Deva. A goddess.
Dewy,a., Pertaining to dew; resembling, consisting of, or moist with, dew. 
Deys,pl. , of Dey
Deye,v. i., To die.
Dhow,n., A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean. It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail. 
Dial,n., An instrument, formerly much used for showing the time of day from the shadow of a style or gnomon on a graduated arc or surface; esp., a sundial; but there are lunar and astral dials. The style or gnomon is usually parallel to the earth's axis, but the dial plate may be either horizontal or vertical. 
Dian,a., Diana.
Dibs,n., A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in the East. 
Dice,n., Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also, the game played with dice. See Die, n. 
Dich,v. i., To ditch.
Dido,n., A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper.
Died,imp. & p. p., of Die
Dice,pl. , of Die
Dies,pl. , of Die
Diet,n., Course of living or nourishment; what is eaten and drunk habitually; food; victuals; fare.
Dika,n., A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the Irvingia Barteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- called also dika bread. 
Dike,n., A ditch; a channel for water made by digging.
Dill,n., An herb (Peucedanum graveolens
Dime,n., A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents; the tenth of a dollar. 
Dine,v. i., To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner.
Dang,, of Ding
Dung,, of Ding
Ding,v. t., To dash; to throw violently.
Dink,a., Trim; neat.
Dint,n., A blow; a stroke.
Dipt,, of Dip
Dire,superl., Ill-boding; portentous; as, dire omens. 
Dirk,n., A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the Scottish Highlander.
Dirl,v. i. & t., To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate.
Dirt,n., Any foul of filthy substance, as excrement, mud, dust, etc.; whatever, adhering to anything, renders it foul or unclean; earth; as, a wagonload of dirt. 
Disc,n., A flat round plate
Dish,n., A vessel, as a platter, a plate, a bowl, used for serving up food at the table. 
Disk,n., A discus; a quoit.
Dite,v. t., To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight.
Ditt,n., See Dit, n., 2. 
Dove,, of Dive
Dive,v. i., To plunge into water head foremost; to thrust the body under, or deeply into, water or other fluid. 
Dizz,v. t., To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle.
Done,p. p., of Do
Doab,, A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, the doab between the Ganges and the Jumna. 
Doat,v. i., See Dote.
Dock,n., A genus of plants (Rumex
Dodd,v. t., Alt. of Dod
Dodo,n., A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus
Doer,v. t. & i., One who does; one performs or executes; one who is wont and ready to act; an actor; an agent.
Does,, The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.
Doff,v. t., To put off, as dress; to divest one's self of; hence, figuratively, to put or thrust away; to rid one's self of. 
Doge,n., The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.
Doit,n., A small Dutch coin, worth about half a farthing; also, a similar small coin once used in Scotland; hence, any small piece of money. 
Doko,n., See Lepidosiren.
Dole,n., grief; sorrow; lamentation.
Dolf,imp., of Delve.
Doll,n., A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.
Dolt,n., A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard. 
Dome,n., A building; a house; an edifice; -- used chiefly in poetry.
Do?a,n., Lady; mistress; madam; -- a title of respect used in Spain, prefixed to the Christian name of a lady. 
Done,, p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive. 
Doni,n., A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used for trading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon. 
Doob,, A perennial, creeping grass (Cynodon dactylon
Doom,v. t., Judgment; judicial sentence; penal decree; condemnation.
Door,n., An opening in the wall of a house or of an apartment, by which to go in and out; an entrance way. 
Doop,n., A little copper cup in which a diamond is held while being cut.
Dorn,n., A British ray; the thornback.
Dorp,n., A hamlet.
Dorr,n., The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor. 
Dory,n., A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree. 
Dose,n., The quantity of medicine given, or prescribed to be taken, at one time. 
Dost,2d pers. sing. pres., of Do.
Dote,n., A marriage portion. [Obs.] See 1st Dot, n. 
Doth,3d pers. sing. pres., of Do.
Doty,a., Half-rotten; as, doty timber. 
Doub,, Doob grass.
Douc,n., A monkey (Semnopithecus nemaeus
Doum,, See Doom palm.
Dour,a., Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.
Dout,v. t., To put out.
Dove,n., A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. The species are numerous.
Dowl,n., Same as Dowle.
Down,n., Fine, soft, hairy outgrowth from the skin or surface of animals or plants, not matted and fleecy like wool 
Doxy,n., A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart.
Doze,v. i., To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefied condition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy. 
Dozy,a., Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head. 
Drab,n., A low, sluttish woman. 
Drad,p. p. & a., Dreaded.
Drag,n., A confection; a comfit; a drug.
Dram,n., A weight; in Apothecaries' weight, one eighth part of an ounce, or sixty grains; in Avoirdupois weight, one sixteenth part of an ounce, or 27.34375 grains. 
Drap,, A thin woolen fabric, twilled like merino. 
Drew,imp., of Draw
Draw,v. t., To cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.
Dray,n., A squirrel's nest.
Dree,v. t., To endure; to suffer.
Dreg,n., Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, or precipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment; hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregs of society. 
Drew,imp., of Draw.
Drey,n., A squirrel's nest. See Dray.
Drib,v. t., To do by little and little
Drie,v. t., To endure.
Drip,v. i., To fall in drops; as, water drips from the eaves. 
Droh,imp., of Draw.
Drop,n., The quantity of fluid which falls in one small spherical mass; a liquid globule; a minim; hence, also, the smallest easily measured portion of a fluid; a small quantity; as, a drop of water. 
Drow,imp., of Draw.
Drub,v. t., To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel.
Drug,v. i., To drudge; to toil laboriously.
Drum,n., An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum
Duad,n., A union of two; duality.
Dual,a., Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two; as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek. 
Duan,n., A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song.
Dubb,n., The Syrian bear. See under Bear.
Duck,n., A pet; a darling.
Duct,n., Any tube or canal by which a fluid or other substance is conducted or conveyed.
Dude,n., A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by an ultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations. 
Duds,n. pl., Old or inferior clothes; tattered garments.
Duel,n., A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, by agreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront given by one to the other. 
Duet,n., A composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental. 
Duff,n., Dough or paste.
Duke,n., A leader; a chief; a prince.
Dull,superl., Slow of understanding; wanting readiness of apprehension; stupid; doltish; blockish.
Duly,adv., In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything
Dumb,a., Destitute of the power of speech; unable; to utter articulate sounds; as, the dumb brutes. 
Dump,n., A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing. 
Dune,n., A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, but often carried far inland by the prevailing winds. 
Dung,n., The excrement of an animal.
Dunt,n., A blow.
Dupe,n., One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull; as, the dupe of a schemer. 
Dura,n., Short form for Dura mater.
Dure,a., Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome.
Duse,n., A demon or spirit. See Deuce.
Dusk,a., Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black; dusky.
Dust,n., Fine, dry particles of earth or other matter, so comminuted that they may be raised and wafted by the wind; that which is crumbled too minute portions; fine powder; as, clouds of dust; bone dust. 
Duty,n., That which is due; payment.
Dyad,n., Two units treated as one; a couple; a pair.
Dyas,n., A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, there consisting of two principal groups. 
Dyed,imp. & p. p., of Dye
Dyer,n., One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like.
Dyke,n., See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to the geological meaning.
Dyne,n., The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second
Each,a. / a. pron., Every one of the two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or each one of you. 
Eale,n., Ale.
Eame,n., Uncle.
Earl,n., A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte
Earn,n., See Ern, n. 
Ease,n., Satisfaction; pleasure; hence, accommodation; entertainment. 
East,n., The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to rise at the equinox, or the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and which is toward the right hand of one who faces the north; the point directly opposite to the west. 
Easy,v. t., At ease; free from pain, trouble, or constraint 
Eath,a. & adv., Easy or easily.
Ebon,a., Consisting of ebony.
Ecce,, A picture which represents the Savior as given up to the people by Pilate, and wearing a crown of thorns. 
Eche,a. / a. pron., Each.
Echo,n., A sound reflected from an opposing surface and repeated to the ear of a listener; repercussion of sound; repetition of a sound.
Ecru,a., Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like. 
Edda,n., The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinavian tribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas (legends, myths
Eddy,n., A current of air or water running back, or in a direction contrary to the main current. 
Eden,n., The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightful region or residence. 
Edge,v. t., The thin cutting side of the blade of an instrument; as, the edge of an ax, knife, sword, or scythe. Hence, figuratively, that which cuts as an edge does, or wounds deeply, etc. 
Edgy,a., Easily irritated; sharp; as, an edgy temper. 
Edit,v. t., To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare for publication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, for publication; as, to edit a newspaper. 
Eeke,v. t., See Eke.
E'en,adv., A contraction for even. See Even.
E'er,adv., A contraction for ever. See Ever.
Eery,a., Serving to inspire fear, esp. a dread of seeing ghosts; wild; weird; as, eerie stories. 
Egad,interj., An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc. 
Egal,a., Equal; impartial.
Eger,a., Alt. of Egre
Egre,a., Sharp; bitter; acid; sour.
Eger,n., An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre.
Egre,a. & n., See Eager, and Eagre. 
Eigh,interj., An exclamation expressing delight.
Eild,n., Age.
Eire,n., Air.
Ejoo,n., Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti.
Eked,imp. & p. p., of Eke
Elan,b., Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm.
Elix,v. t., To extract.
Elke,n., The European wild or whistling swan (Cygnus ferus
Elmy,a., Abounding with elms.
Else,a. & pron., Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming? What else shall I give? Do you expect anything else? 
Elul,n., The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, or the twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to the month of September. 
Elve,n., An old form of Elf.
Emeu,n., Alt. of Emew
Emew,n., See Emu.
Emir,n., Alt. of Emeer
Emit,v. t., To send forth; to throw or give out; to cause to issue; to give vent to; to eject; to discharge; as, fire emits heat and smoke; boiling water emits steam; the sun emits light. 
Emyd,n., A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidae.
Enow,, A form of Enough.
Envy,n., Malice; ill will; spite.
Aeon,n., An immeasurable or infinite space of time; eternity; a long space of time; an age.
Epen,n., See Epencephalon.
Epha,n., A Hebrew dry measure, supposed to be equal to two pecks and five quarts. ten ephahs make one homer. 
Epic,a., Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style. 
Epos,n., An epic.
salt,, Sulphate of magnesia having cathartic qualities; -- originally prepared by boiling down the mineral waters at Epsom, England, -- whence the name; afterwards prepared from sea water; but now from certain minerals, as from siliceous hydrate of magnesia. 
Eras,pl. , of Era
Ergo,conj. / adv., Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way.
Eric,n., A recompense formerly given by a murderer to the relatives of the murdered person.
Erin,n., An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland. 
Erke,a., ASlothful.
Erme,v. i., To grieve; to feel sad.
Erne,n., A sea eagle, esp. the European white-tailed sea eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla
Eros,n., Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as one of the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son of Aphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid. 
Erse,n., A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which is spoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders, Gaelic. 
Ersh,n., See Arrish.
Erst,adv., First.
Esox,n., A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel. 
Espy,v. t., To catch sight of; to perceive with the eyes; to discover, as a distant object partly concealed, or not obvious to notice; to see at a glance; to discern unexpectedly; to spy; as, to espy land; to espy a man in a crowd. 
Etat,, The staff of an army, including all officers above the rank of colonel, also, all adjutants, inspectors, quartermasters, commissaries, engineers, ordnance officers, paymasters, physicians, signal officers, judge advocates; also, the noncommissioned assistants of the above officers. 
Etch,n., A variant of Eddish.
Ethe,a., Easy.
Etna,n., A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat is furnished by a spirit lamp. 
Etui,n., A case for one or several small articles; esp., a box in which scissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use are carried. 
Etym,n., See Etymon.
Euge,n., Applause.
Eugh,n., The yew.
Eval,a., Relating to time or duration.
Even,n., Evening. See Eve, n. 1. 
Ever,adv., At any time; at any period or point of time.
Evet,n., The common newt or eft. In America often applied to several species of aquatic salamanders.
Evil,a., Having qualities tending to injury and mischief; having a nature or properties which tend to badness; mischievous; not good; worthless or deleterious; poor; as, an evil beast; and evil plant; an evil crop. 
Ewer,n., A kind of widemouthed pitcher or jug; esp., one used to hold water for the toilet. 
Ewry,n., An office or place of household service where the ewers were formerly kept.
Exit,, He (or she 
Exon,n., A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England. 
Eyas,n., A nesting or unfledged bird; in falconry, a young hawk from the nest, not able to prey for itself. 
Eyed,imp. & p. p., of Eye
Eyen,n. pl., Eyes.
Eyer,n., One who eyes another.
Eyet,n., An island. See Eyot.
Eyle,v. t. & i., To ail.
Eyne,n., Alt. of Eyen
Eyen,n., Plural of eye; -- now obsolete, or used only in poetry. 
Eyot,n., A little island in a river or lake. See Ait.
Eyra,n., A wild cat (Felis eyra
Eyre,n., A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre (or in itinere
Eyry,n., The nest of a bird of prey or other large bird that builds in a lofty place; aerie.
Face,n., The exterior form or appearance of anything; that part which presents itself to the view; especially, the front or upper part or surface; that which particularly offers itself to the view of a spectator. 
Fact,n., A doing, making, or preparing. 
Fade,a., Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace.
Fady,a., Faded.
Fail,v. i., To be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure or degree up to total absence; to cease to be furnished in the usual or expected manner, or to be altogether cut off from supply; to be lacking; as, streams fail; crops fail. 
Fain,a., Well-pleased; glad; apt; wont; fond; inclined.
Fair,superl., Free from spots, specks, dirt, or imperfection; unblemished; clean; pure. 
Fake,n., One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil. 
Falk,n., The razorbill.
Fell,imp., of Fall
Fall,v. t., To Descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer. 
Falx,n., A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain. 
Fame,n., Public report or rumor.
Fand,, imp. of Find.
Fane,n., A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church.
Fang,a., To catch; to seize, as with the teeth; to lay hold of; to gripe; to clutch. 
Fard,n., Paint used on the face.
Fare,n., To go; to pass; to journey; to travel.
Farl,v. t., Same as Furl.
Farm,a. & n., The rent of land, -- originally paid by reservation of part of its products. 
Faro,n., A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack. 
Fash,v. t., To vex; to tease; to trouble.
Fast,v. i., To abstain from food; to omit to take nourishment in whole or in part; to go hungry.
Fata,, A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted, distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly at the Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily. 
Fate,n., A fixed decree by which the order of things is prescribed; the immutable law of the universe; inevitable necessity; the force by which all existence is determined and conditioned.
Faun,n., A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr. The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man. 
Faux,n., See Fauces.
faux,, A false step; a mistake or wrong measure.
Fawe,a., Fain; glad; delighted.
Fawn,n., A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck.
Faze,v. t., See Feeze.
Feal,a., Faithful; loyal.
Fear,n., A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion. 
Feat,n., An act; a deed; an exploit.
Feed,imp. & p. p., of Fee
Felt,imp. & p. p., of Feel
Feel,v. t., To perceive by the touch; to take cognizance of by means of the nerves of sensation distributed all over the body, especially by those of the skin; to have sensation excited by contact of (a thing
Feet,n. pl., See Foot.
Fele,a., Many.
Fell,, imp. of Fall.
Felt,, imp. & p. p. / a. from Feel.
Feme,n., A woman.
Fend,n., A fiend.
Feod,n., A feud. See 2d Feud.
Fere,n., A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife.
Ferm,n., Alt. of Ferme
Fern,adv., Long ago.
Fers,a., Fierce.
Fess,n., Alt. of Fesse
Fest,n., The fist.
Fete,n., A feat.
Feud,n., A combination of kindred to avenge injuries or affronts, done or offered to any of their blood, on the offender and all his race. 
Fiar,n., One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to the estate of a life renter. 
Fiat,n., An authoritative command or order to do something; an effectual decree.
Fice,n., A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc. 
Fico,n., A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one's thumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig for you. 
Fief,n., An estate held of a superior on condition of military service; a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2. 
Fife,n., A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chiefly to accompany the drum in military music. 
Fike,n., See Fyke.
File,n., An orderly succession; a line; a row
Fill,n., One of the thills or shafts of a carriage.
Film,n., A thin skin; a pellicle; a membranous covering, causing opacity; hence, any thin, slight covering. 
Find,v. t., To meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person. 
Fine,superl., Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity; excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful. 
Finn,a., A native of Finland; one of the Finn/ in the ethnological sense. See Finns.
Fint,, 3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth. 
Fire,n., The evolution of light and heat in the combustion of bodies; combustion; state of ignition.
Firk,v. t., To beat; to strike; to chastise.
Firm,superl., Fixed; hence, closely compressed; compact; substantial; hard; solid; -- applied to the matter of bodies; as, firm flesh; firm muscles, firm wood. 
Fisc,n., A public or state treasury.
Fish,n., A counter, used in various games. 
Fisk,v. i., To run about; to frisk; to whisk.
Fist,n., The hand with the fingers doubled into the palm; the closed hand, especially as clinched tightly for the purpose of striking a blow. 
Fitt,n., See 2d Fit.
Fitz,n., A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp. of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as, Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of Clarence. 
Five,a., Four and one added; one more than four.
Fizz,v. i., To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse. 
Flag,v. i., To hang loose without stiffness; to bend down, as flexible bodies; to be loose, yielding, limp. 
Flam,n., A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext; deception; delusion. 
Flap,v., Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment. 
Flat,superl., Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane. 
Flaw,n., A crack or breach; a gap or fissure; a defect of continuity or cohesion; as, a flaw in a knife or a vase. 
Flax,n., A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue flowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth, called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed from the seed. 
Flay,v. t., To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth. 
Flea,v. t., To flay.
Fled,, imp. & p. p. of Flee.
Flee,v. i., To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed or cowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This is sometimes omitted, making the verb transitive. 
Flet,p. p., Skimmed.
Flew,, imp. of Fly.
Flex,v. t., To bend; as, to flex the arm. 
Flip,n., A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron. 
Flit,v. i., To move with celerity through the air; to fly away with a rapid motion; to dart along; to fleet; as, a bird flits away; a cloud flits along. 
Flix,n., Down; fur.
Flon,pl. , of Flo
Floe,n., A low, flat mass of floating ice. 
Flog,v. t., To beat or strike with a rod or whip; to whip; to lash; to chastise with repeated blows.
Flon,n. pl., See Flo.
Flop,v. t., To clap or strike, as a bird its wings, a fish its tail, etc.; to flap. 
Flow,, imp. sing. of Fly, v. i. 
Flue,n., An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing a current of air, gases, etc.; an air passage 
Flux,n., The act of flowing; a continuous moving on or passing by, as of a flowing stream; constant succession; change. 
Flew,imp., of Fly
Foal,n., The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidae
Foam,n., The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles, which is formed on the surface of liquids, or in the mouth of an animal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as, the foam of the sea. 
Foci,pl. , of Focus
Foge,n., The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin.
Fogy,n., A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over-conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old. 
Foil,v. t., To tread under foot; to trample.
Foin,n., The beech marten (Mustela foina
Fold,v. t., To lap or lay in plaits or folds; to lay one part over another part of; to double; as, to fold cloth; to fold a letter. 
Folk,n. collect. & pl., Alt. of Folks
Fond,, imp. of Find. Found.
Fone,n., pl. of Foe.
Font,n., A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including a due proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small, points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing with that variety of types; a fount. 
Food,n., What is fed upon; that which goes to support life by being received within, and assimilated by, the organism of an animal or a plant; nutriment; aliment; especially, what is eaten by animals for nourishment. 
Fool,n., A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool. 
Feet,pl. , of Foot
Foot,n., The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes. 
Ford,v. i., A place in a river, or other water, where it may be passed by man or beast on foot, by wading. 
Fore,v. i., Journey; way; method of proceeding.
Fork,n., An instrument consisting of a handle with a shank terminating in two or more prongs or tines, which are usually of metal, parallel and slightly curved; -- used from piercing, holding, taking up, or pitching anything. 
form,n., A suffix used to denote in the form / shape of, resembling, etc.; as, valiform; oviform. 
Form,n., The shape and structure of anything, as distinguished from the material of which it is composed; particular disposition or arrangement of matter, giving it individuality or distinctive character; configuration; figure; external appearance. 
Fort,n., A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place, occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, and parapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; a fortification. 
Fora,pl. , of Forum
Foul,n., A bird.
Four,a., One more than three; twice two.
Fowl,n., Any bird; esp., any large edible bird. 
Foxy,a., Like or pertaining to the fox; foxlike in disposition or looks; wily.
Fozy,a., Spongy; soft; fat and puffy.
Frab,v. i. & t., To scold; to nag.
Frap,v. t., To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen, as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle by drawing the lines together. 
Fray,n., Affray; broil; contest; combat.
Fred,n., Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in proper names; as, Alfred; Frederic. 
Free,superl., Exempt from subjection to the will of others; not under restraint, control, or compulsion; able to follow one's own impulses, desires, or inclinations; determining one's own course of action; not dependent; at liberty. 
Fren,a., A stranger.
Fret,n., See 1st Frith.
Frim,a., Flourishing; thriving; fresh; in good case; vigorous.
Frit,v. t., The material of which glass is made, after having been calcined or partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification. It is a composition of silex and alkali, occasionally with other ingredients. 
Friz,v. t., To curl or form into small curls, as hair, with a crisping pin; to crisp. 
Froe,n., A dirty woman; a slattern; a frow.
Frog,n., An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime. 
From,prep., Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the aritithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. 
Frow,n., A woman; especially, a Dutch or German woman. 
Frue,, A moving, inclined, endless apron on which ore is concentrated by a current of water; a kind of buddle. 
Fuar,n., Same as Feuar.
Fubs,n., A plump young person or child.
Fuci,pl. , of Fucus
Fuel,n., Any matter used to produce heat by burning; that which feeds fire; combustible matter used for fires, as wood, coal, peat, etc. 
Fuff,v. t. & i., To puff.
Fuga,n., A fugue.
Fugh,interj., An exclamation of disgust; foh; faugh.
Full,Compar., Filled up, having within its limits all that it can contain; supplied; not empty or vacant; -- said primarily of hollow vessels, and hence of anything else; as, a cup full of water; a house full of people. 
Fume,n., Exhalation; volatile matter (esp. noxious vapor or smoke
Fumy,a., Producing fumes; fumous.
Fund,n., An aggregation or deposit of resources from which supplies are or may be drawn for carrying on any work, or for maintaining existence. 
Funk,n., An offensive smell; a stench.
Furl,v. t., To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten. 
Fury,n., A thief.
Fuse,v. t., To liquefy by heat; to render fiuid; to dissolve; to melt.
Fuss,n., A tumult; a bustle; unnecessary or annoying ado about trifles.
Fast,n., The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster. 
Fust,n., A strong, musty smell; mustiness. 
Fuze,n., A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell, etc. See Fuse, n. 
Fuzz,v. t., To make drunk.
Fyke,n., A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net. 
Fyrd,v. i., Alt. of Fyrdung
Gaby,n., A simpleton; a dunce; a lout.
Gade,n., A small British fish (Motella argenteola
Gael,n.sing. & pl., A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin. 
Gaff,n., A barbed spear or a hook with a handle, used by fishermen in securing heavy fish. 
Gage,n., A pledge or pawn; something laid down or given as a security for the performance of some act by the person depositing it, and forfeited by nonperformance; security. 
Gain,n., A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist, or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end of the floor beam. 
Gait,n., A going; a walk; a march; a way.
Gala,n., Pomp, show, or festivity. 
Gale,n., A strong current of air; a wind between a stiff breeze and a hurricane. The most violent gales are called tempests.
Gall,n., The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder, beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, or bile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder. 
Galt,n., Same as Gault.
Gama,, A species of grass (Tripsacum dactyloides
Game,n., Crooked; lame; as, a game leg. 
Gamy,a., Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near the condition of tainting; high-flavored. 
Gane,v. i., To yawn; to gape.
Gang,v. i., To go; to walk.
Gaol,n., A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or provisional imprisonment; a jail. 
Gape,v. i., To open the mouth wide
Garb,n., Clothing in general.
Gard,n., Garden.
Gare,n., Coarse wool on the legs of sheep.
Gash,v. t., To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly to incisions in flesh. 
Gasp,v. i., To open the mouth wide in catching the breath, or in laborious respiration; to labor for breath; to respire convulsively; to pant violently. 
Gast,v. t., To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast.
Gate,n., A large door or passageway in the wall of a city, of an inclosed field or place, or of a grand edifice, etc.; also, the movable structure of timber, metal, etc., by which the passage can be closed. 
Gaud,n., Trick; jest; sport.
Gaul,n., The Anglicized form of Gallia, which in the time of the Romans included France and Upper Italy (Transalpine and Cisalpine Gaul
Gaur,n., An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris
Gave,, imp. of Give.
Gawk,n., A cuckoo.
Gawn,n., A small tub or lading vessel.
Gaze,v. i., To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look with eagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or with studious attention. 
Geal,v. i., To congeal.
Gean,n., A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium
Gear,n., Clothing; garments; ornaments.
Geat,n., The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a mold in casting.
Geck,n., Scorn, derision, or contempt. 
Gedd,n., The European pike.
Geed,imp. & p. p., of Gee
Geer,, Alt. of Geering
Geet,n., Jet.
Geez,n., The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language or people. See Ethiopic.
Geic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold. 
Gein,n., See Humin.
Geld,n., Money; tribute; compensation; ransom.
Gelt,n., Trubute, tax. 
Gems,n., The chamois.
Gena,, The cheek; the feathered side of the under mandible of a bird.
Gens,pl. , of Gendarme
Gent,a., Gentle; noble; of gentle birth.
Genu,n., The knee.
Gere,n., Gear.
Germ,n., That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under which an organism appears. 
Gern,v. t., To grin or yawn.
Gery,a., Changeable; fickle.
Gest,n., A guest.
Geth,, the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go.
Ghat,n., Alt. of Ghaut
Ghee,n., Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind of oil. 
Gibe,v. i., To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to utter taunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff. 
Gift,v. t., Anything given; anything voluntarily transferred by one person to another without compensation; a present; an offering.
Gide,n., Alt. of Guide
Gila,, A large tuberculated lizard (Heloderma suspectum
Gilt,, of Gild
Gild,v. t., To overlay with a thin covering of gold; to cover with a golden color; to cause to look like gold.
Gile,n., Guile.
Gill,n., An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia.
Gilt,v. t., A female pig, when young. 
Gimp,a., Smart; spruce; trim; nice.
Ging,n., Same as Gang, n., 2. 
Ginn,pl. , of Ginnee
Gird,n., A stroke with a rod or switch; a severe spasm; a twinge; a pang.
Girt,imp. & p. p., of Gird
Gird,v. t., To encircle or bind with any flexible band.
Gire,n., See Gyre.
Girl,n., A young person of either sex; a child.
Girn,n., To grin.
Girt,, imp. & p. p. of Gird.
Gise,v. t., To feed or pasture.
Gist,n., A resting place.
Gite,n., A gown.
Gith,n., The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, or fennel flower. 
Gave,imp., of Give
Give,n., To bestow without receiving a return; to confer without compensation; to impart, as a possession; to grant, as authority or permission; to yield up or allow. 
Glad,superl., Pleased; joyous; happy; cheerful; gratified; -- opposed to sorry, sorrowful, or unhappy; -- said of persons, and often followed by of, at, that, or by the infinitive, and sometimes by with, introducing the cause or reason. 
Glee,n., Music; minstrelsy; entertainment.
Gleg,a., Quick of perception; alert; sharp.
Glen,n., A secluded and narrow valley; a dale; a depression between hills.
Glew,n., See Glue.
Gley,v. i., To squint; to look obliquely; to overlook things.
Glib,superl., Smooth; slippery; as, ice is glib. 
Glim,n., Brightness; splendor.
Glow,v. i., To shine with an intense or white heat; to give forth vivid light and heat; to be incandescent.
Glue,n., A hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jelly the skins, hoofs, etc., of animals. When gently heated with water, it becomes viscid and tenaceous, and is used as a cement for uniting substances. The name is also given to other adhesive or viscous substances. 
Glum,n., Sullenness.
Glut,v. t., To swallow, or to swallow greedlly; to gorge. 
Glyn,n., Alt. of Glynne
Gnar,n., A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; -- written also gnarr. 
Gnat,n., A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing a metamorphosis in water. The females have a proboscis armed with needlelike organs for penetrating the skin of animals. These are wanting in the males. In America they are generally called mosquitoes. See Mosquito. 
Gnaw,v. t., To bite, as something hard or tough, which is not readily separated or crushed; to bite off little by little, with effort; to wear or eat away by scraping or continuous biting with the teeth; to nibble at. 
Gnew,, imp. of Gnaw.
Gnof,n., Churl; curmudgeon.
Gnow,imp., Gnawed.
Went,imp., of Go
Gone,p. p., of Go
Goad,v. t., A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates. 
Goaf,n., That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob .
Goal,n., The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the place at which a race or a journey is to end. 
Goar,n., Same as lst Gore.
Goat,n., A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus
Goby,n., One of several species of small marine fishes of the genus Gobius and allied genera.
Gode,a. & n., Good.
Goel,a., Yellow.
Goen,, p. p. of Go.
Goer,n., One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker 
Goff,n., A silly clown.
Gold,n., Alt. of Goolde
Golf,n., A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at the lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of small holes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the fewest strokes is the winner.
Goll,n., A hand, paw, or claw. 
Gome,n., A man.
Gone,, p. p. of Go.
Gong,n., A privy or jakes.
Good,superl., Possessing desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end designed; promoting success, welfare, or happiness; serviceable; useful; fit; excellent; admirable; commendable; not bad, corrupt, evil, noxious, offensive, or troublesome, etc. 
Guru,n., A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos. 
Goot,n., A goat.
Gord,n., An instrument of gaming; a sort of dice.
Gore,n., Dirt; mud.
Gorm,n., Axle grease. See Gome.
Gory,a., Covered with gore or clotted blood.
Goss,n., Gorse.
Gote,n., A channel for water.
Goth,n., One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe and the Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overran and took an important part in subverting the Roman empire. 
Goud,n., Woad.
Gour,n., A fire worshiper; a Gheber or Gueber.
Gout,n., A drop; a clot or coagulation.
Gove,n., A mow; a rick for hay.
Gowd,n., Gold; wealth.
Gowk,v. t., To make a, booby of one
Gowl,v. i., To howl.
Gown,n., A loose, flowing upper garment 
Grab,n., A vessel used on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts. 
Graf,n., A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, or count in French. See Earl. 
Gram,a., Angry.
Gray,superl., White mixed with black, as the color of pepper and salt, or of ashes, or of hair whitened by age; sometimes, a dark mixed color; as, the soft gray eye of a dove. 
Gree,n., Good will; favor; pleasure; satisfaction; -- used esp. in such phrases as: to take in gree; to accept in gree; that is, to take favorably. 
Gres,n., Grass.
Gret,a., Alt. of Grete
Grew,, imp. of Grow.
Grey,a., See Gray (the correct orthography
Grid,n., A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron. 
Grig,n., A cricket or grasshopper.
Gril,a., Harsh; hard; severe; stern; rough.
Grim,Compar., Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly; cruel; frightful; horrible.
Grin,n., A snare; a gin.
Grip,n., The griffin.
Gris,a., Gray.
Grit,n., Sand or gravel; rough, hard particles. 
Grog,n., A mixture of spirit and water not sweetened; hence, any intoxicating liquor. 
Gros,n., A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros de Tours. 
Grot,n., A grotto.
Grew,imp., of Grow
Grow,v. i., To increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation of new matter into the living organism; -- said of animals and vegetables and their organs.
Grub,v. i., To dig in or under the ground, generally for an object that is difficult to reach or extricate; to be occupied in digging. 
Gruf,adv., Forwards; with one's face to the ground.
Grum,a., Morose; severe of countenance; sour; surly; glum; grim.
Guan,n., Any one of many species of large gallinaceous birds of Central and South America, belonging to Penelope, Pipile, Ortalis, and allied genera. Several of the species are often domesticated. 
Guhr,n., A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities or clefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from a mixture of clay or ocher. 
Guib,n., A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus
Gula,n., The upper front of the neck, next to the chin; the upper throat. 
Guid,n., A flower. See Gold.
Gule,v. t., To give the color of gules to.
Gulf,n., A hollow place in the earth; an abyss; a deep chasm or basin, 
Gull,v. t., To deceive; to cheat; to mislead; to trick; to defraud.
Gulp,v. t., To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; to take down at one swallow. 
Gult,n., Guilt. See Guilt.
Guly,a., Of or pertaining to gules; red.
Gump,n., A dolt; a dunce.
Guna,n., In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i, e, by prefixing an a element. The term is sometimes used to denote the same vowel change in other languages. 
Gurl,n., A young person of either sex. [Obs.] See Girl.
Gurt,n., A gutter or channel for water, hewn out of the bottom of a working drift. 
Gush,v. i., To issue with violence and rapidity, as a fluid; to rush forth as a fluid from confinement; to flow copiously. 
Gust,n., A sudden squall; a violent blast of wind; a sudden and brief rushing or driving of the wind. Snow, and hail, stormy gust and flaw. 
Guze,n., A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned without mention of the tincture. 
Gybe,n., See Jib.
Gyle,n., Fermented wort used for making vinegar.
Gyre,n., A circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; a turn or revolution; a circuit. 
Gyri,n. pl., See Gyrus.
Gyse,n., Guise.
Gyte,a., Delirious; senselessly extravagant; as, the man is clean gyte. 
Gyve,n., A shackle; especially, one to confine the legs; a fetter. 
Haaf,n., The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the Shetland Isles. 
Haak,n., A sea fish. See Hake.
Haar,n., A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind. 
Hack,n., A frame or grating of various kinds; as, a frame for drying bricks, fish, or cheese; a rack for feeding cattle; a grating in a mill race, etc. 
Hade,n., The descent of a hill.
Hadj,n., The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans. 
Haft,n., A handle; that part of an instrument or vessel taken into the hand, and by which it is held and used; -- said chiefly of a knife, sword, or dagger; the hilt. 
Haik,n., A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as an outer garment.
Hail,n., Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separate masses or grains are called hailstones. 
Hair,n., The collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body. 
Haye,n., The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.
Hake,n., A drying shed, as for unburned tile. 
Hale,a., Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body. 
Half,a., Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view. 
Halk,n., A nook; a corner.
Hall,n., A building or room of considerable size and stateliness, used for public purposes; as, Westminster Hall, in London. 
Halm,n., Same as Haulm.
Halo,n., A luminous circle, usually prismatically colored, round the sun or moon, and supposed to be caused by the refraction of light through crystals of ice in the atmosphere. Connected with halos there are often white bands, crosses, or arches, resulting from the same atmospheric conditions. 
Halp,imp., Helped.
Hals,n., The neck or throat.
Halt,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contraction for holdeth. 
Hame,n., Home.
Hand,n., That part of the fore limb below the forearm or wrist in man and monkeys, and the corresponding part in many other animals; manus; paw. See Manus. 
Hung,, of Hang
Hang,v. i., To suspend; to fasten to some elevated point without support from below; -- often used with up or out; as, to hang a coat on a hook; to hang up a sign; to hang out a banner. 
Hank,n., A parcel consisting of two or more skeins of yarn or thread tied together.
Hard,superl., Not easily penetrated, cut, or separated into parts; not yielding to pressure; firm; solid; compact; -- applied to material bodies, and opposed to soft; as, hard wood; hard flesh; a hard apple. 
Hare,v. t., To excite; to tease, or worry; to harry. 
Hark,v. i., To listen; to hearken.
Harl,n., A filamentous substance; especially, the filaments of flax or hemp. 
Harm,n., Injury; hurt; damage; detriment; misfortune.
Harp,n., A musical instrument consisting of a triangular frame furnished with strings and sometimes with pedals, held upright, and played with the fingers. 
Hart,n., A stag; the male of the red deer. See the Note under Buck.
Hary,v. t., To draw; to drag; to carry off by violence.
Hase,v. t., See Haze, v. t. 
Hash,n., That which is hashed or chopped up; meat and vegetables, especially such as have been already cooked, chopped into small pieces and mixed. 
Hask,n., A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish. 
Hasp,n., A clasp, especially a metal strap permanently fast at one end to a staple or pin, while the other passes over a staple, and is fastened by a padlock or a pin; also, a metallic hook for fastening a door. 
Hast,, 2d pers. sing. pres. of. Have, contr. of havest. 
Hate,n., To have a great aversion to, with a strong desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; to dislike intensely; to detest; as, to hate one's enemies; to hate hypocrisy. 
Hath,3d pers. sing. pres., Has.
Haul,v. t., To pull or draw with force; to drag.
Haum,n., See Haulm, stalk. 
Haut,a., Haughty.
have,Indic. present, of Have
hast,, of Have
have,, of Have
Have,v. t., To hold in possession or control; to own; as, he has a farm. 
Hawk,n., One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of the family Falconidae. They differ from the true falcons in lacking the prominent tooth and notch of the bill, and in having shorter and less pointed wings. Many are of large size and grade into the eagles. Some, as the goshawk, were formerly trained like falcons. In a more general sense the word is not infrequently applied, also, to true falcons, as the sparrow hawk, pigeon hawk, duck hawk, and prairie hawk. 
Hawm,n., See Haulm, straw. 
Haze,n., Light vapor or smoke in the air which more or less impedes vision, with little or no dampness; a lack of transparency in the air; hence, figuratively, obscurity; dimness. 
Hazy,n., Thick with haze; somewhat obscured with haze; not clear or transparent.
Head,n., The anterior or superior part of an animal, containing the brain, or chief ganglia of the nervous system, the mouth, and in the higher animals, the chief sensory organs; poll; cephalon. 
Heal,v. t., To cover, as a roof, with tiles, slate, lead, or the like. 
Heam,n., The afterbirth or secundines of a beast.
Heap,n., A crowd; a throng; a multitude or great number of persons.
Hear,v. t., To perceive by the ear; to apprehend or take cognizance of by the ear; as, to hear sounds; to hear a voice; to hear one call. 
Heat,n., A force in nature which is recognized in various effects, but especially in the phenomena of fusion and evaporation, and which, as manifested in fire, the sun's rays, mechanical action, chemical combination, etc., becomes directly known to us through the sense of feeling. In its nature heat is a mode if motion, being in general a form of molecular disturbance or vibration. It was formerly supposed to be a subtile, imponderable fluid, to which was given the name caloric. 
Hove,, of Heave
Hebe,n., The goddess of youth, daughter of Jupiter and Juno. She was believed to have the power of restoring youth and beauty to those who had lost them. 
Heck,n., The bolt or latch of a door.
Heed,v. t., To mind; to regard with care; to take notice of; to attend to; to observe.
Heel,v. i., To lean or tip to one side, as a ship; as, the ship heels aport; the boat heeled over when the squall struck it. 
Heep,n., The hip of the dog-rose.
Heer,n., A yarn measure of six hundred yards or / of a spindle. See Spindle.
Heft,n., Same as Haft, n. 
Heir,n., One who inherits, or is entitled to succeed to the possession of, any property after the death of its owner; one on whom the law bestows the title or property of another at the death of the latter. 
Held,, imp. & p. p. of Hold.
Hele,n., Health; welfare.
Hell,v. t., The place of the dead, or of souls after death; the grave; -- called in Hebrew sheol, and by the Greeks hades. 
Helm,n., See Haulm, straw. 
Holp,imp., of Help
Help,v. t., To furnish with strength or means for the successful performance of any action or the attainment of any object; to aid; to assist; as, to help a man in his work; to help one to remember; -- the following infinitive is commonly used without to; as,   Help me scale yon balcony.   
Hemp,n., A plant of the genus Cannabis (C. sativa
Heng,imp., Hung.
Hent,p. p., of Hent
Here,pron. pl., Of them; their.
Herb,n., A plant whose stem does not become woody and permanent, but dies, at least down to the ground, after flowering. 
Herd,a., Haired.
Here,n., Hair.
Herl,n., Same as Harl, 2. 
Hern,n., A heron; esp., the common European heron. 
Hero,n., An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules. 
Herr,n., A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent to the English Mister. 
Hers,pron., See the Note under Her, pron. 
Hert,n., A hart.
Hery,v. t., To worship; to glorify; to praise.
Hesp,n., A measure of two hanks of linen thread.
Hest,n., Command; precept; injunction.
Hete,imp. & p. p., of Hete
Heuk,n., Variant of Huke.
Hewn,, of Hew
Hewe,n., A domestic servant; a retainer.
Hewn,a., Felled, cut, or shaped as with an ax; roughly squared; as, a house built of hewn logs. 
Hexa,, A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.; as, hexatomic, hexabasic. 
Heyh,a., Alt. of Heygh
Hide,v. t., To conceal, or withdraw from sight; to put out of view; to secrete. 
Hied,imp. & p. p., of Hie
High,v. i., To hie.
Hote,, of Hight
Hile,v. t., To hide. See Hele.
Hill,n., A natural elevation of land, or a mass of earth rising above the common level of the surrounding land; an eminence less than a mountain. 
Hilt,n., A handle; especially, the handle of a sword, dagger, or the like. 
Hind,n., The female of the red deer, of which the male is the stag. 
Hine,n., A servant; a farm laborer; a peasant; a hind.
Hink,n., A reaping hook.
Hint,v. t., To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; to suggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion. 
Hire,pron., See Here, pron. 
Hirs,pron., Hers; theirs. See Here, pron. 
Hiss,v. i., To make with the mouth a prolonged sound like that of the letter s, by driving the breath between the tongue and the teeth; to make with the mouth a sound like that made by a goose or a snake when angered; esp., to make such a sound as an expression of hatred, passion, or disapproval. 
Hist,interj., Hush; be silent; -- a signal for silence.
Hit.,adj., having become very popular or acclaimed; -- said of entertainment performances; as, a hit record, a hit movie. 
Hive,n., A box, basket, or other structure, for the reception and habitation of a swarm of honeybees. 
Hizz,v. i., To hiss.
Hoar,a., White, or grayish white; as, hoar frost; hoar cliffs. 
Hoax,n., A deception for mockery or mischief; a deceptive trick or story; a practical joke.
Hock,n., A Rhenish wine, of a light yellow color, either sparkling or still. The name is also given indiscriminately to all Rhenish wines. 
Hoed,imp. & p. p., of Hoe
Hogh,n., A hill; a cliff.
Hogo,n., High flavor; strong scent.
Hoit,v. i., To leap; to caper; to romp noisily.
Hold,n., The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, in which the cargo is stowed. 
Held,imp. & p. p., of Hold
Hold,v. t., To cause to remain in a given situation, position, or relation, within certain limits, or the like; to prevent from falling or escaping; to sustain; to restrain; to keep in the grasp; to retain. 
Hole,a., Whole.
Holm,n., A common evergreen oak, of Europe (Quercus Ilex
Holp,, Alt. of Holpen
Holt,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contr. from holdeth. 
Holy,superl., Set apart to the service or worship of God; hallowed; sacred; reserved from profane or common use; holy vessels; a holy priesthood.
Home,n., See Homelyn.
Hond,n., Hand.
Hone,v. i., To pine; to lament; to long.
Hong,n., A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade in China, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by a common passage and used for business or storage. 
Honk,n., The cry of a wild goose.
Hont,n. & v., See under Hunt.
Hood,n., State; condition.
Hoof,n., The horny substance or case that covers or terminates the feet of certain animals, as horses, oxen, etc. 
Hook,n., A piece of metal, or other hard material, formed or bent into a curve or at an angle, for catching, holding, or sustaining anything; as, a hook for catching fish; a hook for fastening a gate; a boat hook, etc. 
Hool,a., Whole.
Hoom,n., Home.
Hoop,n., A pliant strip of wood or metal bent in a circular form, and united at the ends, for holding together the staves of casks, tubs, etc. 
Hoot,v. i., To cry out or shout in contempt.
Hope,n., A sloping plain between mountain ridges.
Hore,a., Hoar.
Horn,n., A hard, projecting, and usually pointed organ, growing upon the heads of certain animals, esp. of the ruminants, as cattle, goats, and the like. The hollow horns of the Ox family consist externally of true horn, and are never shed. 
Hors,, Out of the combat; disabled from fighting.
Hose,pl. , of Hose
Host,n., The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before consecration. 
Hote,p. p., of Hote
Houp,n., See Hoopoe.
Hour,n., The twenty-fourth part of a day; sixty minutes.
Hove,, imp. & p. p. of Heave.
Howl,v. i., To utter a loud, protraced, mournful sound or cry, as dogs and wolves often do. 
Howp,v. i., To cry out; to whoop.
Huch,n., Alt. of Huchen
Huck,v. i., To higgle in trading.
Hued,a., Having color; -- usually in composition; as, bright-hued; many-hued. 
Huer,n., One who cries out or gives an alarm; specifically, a balker; a conder. See Balker. 
Huff,v. t., To swell; to enlarge; to puff up; as, huffed up with air. 
Huge,superl., Very large; enormous; immense; excessive; -- used esp. of material bulk, but often of qualities, extent, etc.; as, a huge ox; a huge space; a huge difference. 
Hugy,a., Vast.
Huia,, A New Zealand starling (Heteralocha acutirostris
Huke,n., An outer garment worn in Europe in the Middle Ages.
Hulk,n., The body of a ship or decked vessel of any kind; esp., the body of an old vessel laid by as unfit for service. 
Hull,v. t., The outer covering of anything, particularly of a nut or of grain; the outer skin of a kernel; the husk. 
Hump,n., A protuberance; especially, the protuberance formed by a crooked back. 
Hung,, imp. & p. p. of Hang.
Hunk,n., A large lump or piece; a hunch; as, a hunk of bread. 
Hunt,v. t., To search for or follow after, as game or wild animals; to chase; to pursue for the purpose of catching or killing; to follow with dogs or guns for sport or exercise; as, to hunt a deer. 
Hurl,v. t., To send whirling or whizzing through the air; to throw with violence; to drive with great force; as, to hurl a stone or lance. 
Hurr,v. i., To make a rolling or burring sound.
Hurt,n., A band on a trip-hammer helve, bearing the trunnions. 
Hush,v. t., To still; to silence; to calm; to make quiet; to repress the noise or clamor of.
Husk,n., The external covering or envelope of certain fruits or seeds; glume; hull; rind; in the United States, especially applied to the covering of the ears of maize. 
Huso,n., A large European sturgeon (Acipenser huso
Huzz,v. i., To buzz; to murmur.
Hyen,n., A hyena.
Hyke,n., See Haik, and Huke. 
Hymn,n., An ode or song of praise or adoration; especially, a religious ode, a sacred lyric; a song of praise or thankgiving intended to be used in religious service; as, the Homeric hymns; Watts' hymns. 
Hyne,n., A servant. See Hine.
Hypo,n., Hypochondria.
Ours,pl. , of I
Iamb,n., An iambus or iambic.
Ibex,n., One of several species of wild goats having very large, recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also steinbok. 
Ibis,n., Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the family Ibidae, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long, curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles. 
Iced,imp. & p. p., of Ice
Icon,n., An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait.
Idea,n., The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever, whether sensible or spiritual. 
Idem,pron. / adj., The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id.
Ides,n. pl., The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the thirteenth day of the other months. 
Idle,superl., Of no account; useless; vain; trifling; unprofitable; thoughtless; silly; barren.
Idly,adv., In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly; (Obs.
Idol,n., An image or representation of anything.
Idyl,n., A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the like. 
Ilex,n., The holm oak (Quercus Ilex
liad,n., A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to Homer. 
Ilke,a., Same.
Imam,n., Alt. of Imaum
Iman,n., Alt. of Imaum
Inca,n., An emperor or monarch of Peru before, or at the time of, the Spanish conquest; any member of this royal dynasty, reputed to have been descendants of the sun. 
Inch,n., An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off the coast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc. 
Inde,a., Azure-colored; of a bright blue color.
Inee,n., An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthus hispidus
Inia,n., A South American freshwater dolphin (Inia Boliviensis
Inky,a., Consisting of, or resembling, ink; soiled with ink; black. 
Inly,a., Internal; interior; secret.
Inne,adv. & prep., In.
Into,prep., To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of applications.
Iota,n., The ninth letter of the Greek alphabet (/
Iran,n., The native name of Persia.
Iris,n., The goddess of the rainbow, and swift-footed messenger of the gods. 
Iron,n., The most common and most useful metallic element, being of almost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (as hematite, magnetite, etc.
Irpe,n., A fantastic grimace or contortion of the body.
Isis,n., The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians. She was regarded as the mother of Horus, and the sister and wife of Osiris. The Egyptians adored her as the goddess of fecundity, and as the great benefactress of their country, who instructed their ancestors in the art of agriculture. 
Isle,n., See Aisle.
Is't,, A contraction of is it.
Itch,v. i., To have an uneasy sensation in the skin, which inclines the person to scratch the part affected. 
Item,adv., Also; as an additional article.
Iter,n., A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius. 
Ivan,, An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of the Russian people; -- used as   John Bull   is used for the typical Englishman. 
I've,, Colloquial contraction of I have.
Iwis,adv., Indeed; truly. See Ywis.
Ixia,n., A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable for the brilliancy of its flowers. 
Jaal,, A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana
Jack,n., A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. 
Jade,n., A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern countries and among many early peoples. 
Jagg,v. t. & n., See Jag.
Jail,n., A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with reference to some future judicial proceeding. 
Jain,n., Alt. of Jaina
Jako,n., An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus
Jamb,n., The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace; hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face. 
Jane,n., A coin of Genoa; any small coin.
Jant,v. i., See Jaunt.
Jape,v. i., To jest; to play tricks; to jeer.
Jarl,n., A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the Danish and Norse invasions. 
Jasp,n., Jasper.
Java,n., One of the islands of the Malay Archipelago belonging to the Netherlands.
Jawn,v. i., See Yawn.
Jawy,a., Relating to the jaws.
Jean,n., A twilled cotton cloth.
Jeat,n., See Jet.
Jeel,n., A morass; a shallow lake.
Jeer,n., A gear; a tackle.
Jehu,n., A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously. 
Jell,v. i., To jelly.
Jerk,v. t., To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk beef. See Charqui. 
Jess,n., A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand, was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon. 
Jest,n., A deed; an action; a gest.
Jets,pl. , of Jet d'eau
Jibe,v. i., To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. See Gybe. 
Jill,n., A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill.
Jilt,n., A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a flirt.
Jimp,a., Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.
Jinn,n., See Jinnee.
Joes,pl. , of Jo
John,n., A proper name of a man.
Join,v. t., To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact; to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to append. 
Joke,n., Something said for the sake of exciting a laugh; something witty or sportive (commonly indicating more of hilarity or humor than jest
Jole,v. t. & n., Alt. of Joll
Joll,v. t. & n., Same as Jowl.
Jolt,v. i., To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts. 
Joso,n., A small gudgeon.
Joss,n., A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol.
Jouk,v. i., See Juke.
Joul,v. t., See Jowl.
Jove,n., The chief divinity of the ancient Romans; Jupiter.
Jowl,n., The cheek; the jaw.
Juba,n., The mane of an animal.
Jube,n., chancel screen or rood screen.
Juge,n., A judge.
Juga,pl. , of Jugum
Juke,v. i., To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head.
Juli,pl. , of Julus
July,n., The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days. 
Jump,n., A kind of loose jacket for men.
June,n., The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days. 
Junk,n., A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk.
June,n., The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera. 
Jupe,n., Same as Jupon.
Jura,n., 1. A range of mountains between France and Switzerland.
Jury,a., For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance.
Just,a., Conforming or conformable to rectitude or justice; not doing wrong to any; violating no right or obligation; upright; righteous; honest; true; -- said both of persons and things.
Jute,n., The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorus olitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber is much used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper, etc. 
Kadi,n., Alt. of Kadiaster
Kage,n., A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.
Kagu,n., A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus
Kail,n., A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1. 
Kain,n., Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a tenant to his landlord. 
Kaka,n., A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown parrot (Nestor meridionalis
Kale,n., A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head, being nearly the original or wild form of the species. 
Kali,n., The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years. 
Kama,n., The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with a bow of sugar cane or flowers. 
Kame,n., A low ridge.
Kami,n. pl., A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty, and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by the mikado. 
Kand,n., Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.
Karn,n., A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn. 
Kate,n., The brambling finch.
Kava,n., A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum
Kawn,n., An inn.
Keck,v. i., To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit. 
Keel,v. t. & i., To cool; to skim or stir.
Keen,superl., Sharp; having a fine edge or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor with a keen edge. 
Kept,imp. & p. p., of Keep
Keep,v. t., To care; to desire.
Keir,n., See Kier.
Keld,a., Having a kell or covering; webbed.
Kele,v. t., To cool.
Kell,n., A kiln.
Kelp,n., The calcined ashes of seaweed, -- formerly much used in the manufacture of glass, now used in the manufacture of iodine. 
Kelt,n., See Kilt, n. 
Kemb,v. t., To comb.
Kemp,n., Alt. of Kempty
Keno,n., A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered. 
Kent,, A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means of which the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; -- called also keyed bugle, and key bugle. 
Kept,imp. & p. p., of Keep.
Kerb,n., See Curb.
Kerf,n., A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or sawing. 
Kerl,n., See Carl.
Kern,n., A light-armed foot soldier of the ancient militia of Ireland and Scotland; -- distinguished from gallowglass, and often used as a term of contempt. 
Kers,n., Alt. of Kerse
Kess,v. t., To kiss.
Kest,imp., of Cast.
Khan,n., A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly governed by them. 
Kibe,n., A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain.
Kiby,a., Affected with kibes.
Kick,v. t., To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog. 
Kier,n., A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.
Kike,v. i., To gaze; to stare.
Kill,n., A kiln.
Kiln,n., A large stove or oven; a furnace of brick or stone, or a heated chamber, for the purpose of hardening, burning, or drying anything; as, a kiln for baking or hardening earthen vessels; a kiln for drying grain, meal, lumber, etc.; a kiln for calcining limestone. 
Kilo,n., An abbreviation of Kilogram.
Kilt,, p. p. from Kill.
Kind,superl., Characteristic of the species; belonging to one's nature; natural; native.
Kine,n. pl., Cows.
King,n., A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer. 
Kink,n., A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in a cord. 
Kino,n., The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine. 
Kipe,n., An osier basket used for catching fish.
Kirk,n., A church or the church, in the various senses of the word; esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. 
Kish,n., A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting.
Kiss,v. t., To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence, submission, forgiveness, etc. 
Kist,n., A chest; hence, a coffin. 
Kite,n., Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinae, of which many species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and usually a forked tail. 
Kith,n., Acquaintance; kindred.
Kive,n., A mash vat. See Keeve.
Knab,v. t., To seize with the teeth; to gnaw.
Knag,n., A knot in wood; a protuberance.
Knap,n., A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising ground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop. 
Knar,n., See Gnar.
Knaw,v. t., See Gnaw.
Knee,n., In man, the joint in the middle part of the leg. 
Knew,imp., of Know.
Knit,imp. & p. p., of Knit
Knob,n., A hard protuberance; a hard swelling or rising; a bunch; a lump; as, a knob in the flesh, or on a bone. 
Knop,n., A knob; a bud; a bunch; a button.
Knor,n., See Knur.
Knot,n., A fastening together of the pars or ends of one or more threads, cords, ropes, etc., by any one of various ways of tying or entangling. 
Know,n., Knee.
Knew,imp., of Know
Know,v. i., To perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to have full information of; as, to know one's duty. 
Knur,n., A knurl.
Koba,n., Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing. 
Koel,n., Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys, found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds. 
Koff,n., A two-masted Dutch vessel.
Kohl,n., A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids. 
Kris,n., A Malay dagger. See Creese.
Ksar,n., See Czar.
Kuda,n., The East Indian tapir. See Tapir.
Kudu,n., See Koodoo.
Kurd,n., A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies.
Kyar,n., Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir. 
Kyaw,n., A daw.
Kyke,v. i., To look steadfastly; to gaze.
Laas,n., A lace. See Lace.
Lakh,n., One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac of rupees. 
Lace,n., That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment, of a shoe, of a machine belt, etc. 
ries,pl. , of Lachrymatory
Lack,n., Blame; cause of blame; fault; crime; offense.
Lade,v. t., To load; to put a burden or freight on or in; -- generally followed by that which receives the load, as the direct object. 
Lady,n., A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a mistress; the female head of a household.
Laft,, p. p. of Leave.
Laic,a., Alt. of Laical
Laid,imp. & p. p., of Lay.
Lain,p. p., of Lie, v. i. 
Lair,n., A place in which to lie or rest; especially, the bed or couch of a wild beast. 
Lake,n., A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc. 
Lakh,n., Same as Lac, one hundred thousand. 
Laky,a., Pertaining to a lake.
Lalo,n., The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras. Cf. Couscous. 
Lama,n., See Llama.
Lamb,n., The young of the sheep.
Lame,superl., Moving with pain or difficulty on account of injury, defect, or temporary obstruction of a function; as, a lame leg, arm, or muscle. 
Lamm,v. t., See Lam.
Lamp,n., A thin plate or lamina.
Land,n., Urine. See Lant.
Lane,a., Alone.
Lang,a. & adv., Long.
Lank,superl., Slender and thin; not well filled out; not plump; shrunken; lean.
Lant,n., Urine.
Lapp,n., Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps.
Lars,pl. , of Lar
Lard,n., Bacon; the flesh of swine.
Lare,n., Lore; learning.
Lark,v. i., A frolic; a jolly time.
Lary,n., A guillemot; -- called also lavy.
Lash,n., The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given. 
Lask,n., A diarrhea or flux.
Lass,n., A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart.
Last,3d pers. sing. pres., of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. 
Late,v., Coming after the time when due, or after the usual or proper time; not early; slow; tardy; long delayed; as, a late spring. 
Lath,n., A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles, plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes used. 
Laud,v. i., High commendation; praise; honor; exaltation; glory.
Laus,a., Loose.
Lava,n., The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured sides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It also issues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds covering many square miles, as in the Northwestern United States. 
Lave,v. t., To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise. 
Lawe,v. t., To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet. 
Lawn,n., An open space between woods.
Lawm,n., A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton
Laid,imp. & p. p., of Lay
Laze,v. i., To be lazy or idle.
Lazy,superl., Disinclined to action or exertion; averse to labor; idle; shirking work.
Lead,n., One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes, sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum
Leaf,n., A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant which collectively constitute its foliage. 
Leak,v., A crack, crevice, fissure, or hole which admits water or other fluid, or lets it escape; as, a leak in a roof; a leak in a boat; a leak in a gas pipe. 
Leal,a., Faithful; loyal; true.
Leam,n. & v. i., See Leme.
Lean,v. t., To conceal.
Leap,n., A basket.
Lear,v. t., To learn. See Lere, to learn. 
Leat,n., An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill. 
Left,imp. & p. p., of Leave
Lech,v. t., To lick.
Lees,pl. , of Lee
Leed,n., Alt. of Leede
Leef,a. & adv., See Lief.
Leek,n., A plant of the genus Allium (A. Porrum
Leep,strong imp., Leaped.
Leer,v. t., To learn.
Lees,n. pl., Dregs. See 2d Lee.
Leet,obs. imp., of Let, to allow. 
Left,imp. & p. p., of Leave.
Lege,v. t., To allege; to assert.
Leme,n., A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam.
Lena,n., A procuress.
Lent,imp. & p. p., of Lend
Lend,v. t., To allow the custody and use of, on condition of the return of the same; to grant the temporary use of; as, to lend a book; -- opposed to borrow. 
Lene,v. t., To lend; to grant; to permit.
Leno,n., A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.
Lens,n., A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in optical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, and thus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice, the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical, or of some other figure. 
Lent,, imp. & p. p. of Lend.
Leod,n., People; a nation; a man.
Leon,n., A lion.
Lere,n., Learning; lesson; lore.
Lese,v. t., To lose.
Less,conj., Unless.
Lest,v. i., To listen.
Lete,v. t., To let; to leave.
Leve,a., Dear. See Lief.
Levy,n., A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia to the Spanish real of one eighth of a dollar (or 12/ cents
Lewd,superl., Not clerical; laic; laical; hence, unlearned; simple. 
Leze,, Any crime committed against the sovereign power.
Liar,n., A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies.
Lias,n., The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones underlying the Oolite. See the Chart of Geology.
Lice,n., pl. of Louse.
Lich,a., Like.
Lick,v. t., To draw or pass the tongue over; as, a dog licks his master's hand. 
Lied,imp. & p. p., of Lie
Lain,p. p., of Lie
Lien,, of Lie
Lied,n., A lay; a German song. It differs from the French chanson, and the Italian canzone, all three being national. 
Lief,n., Same as Lif.
Lien,obs. p. p., of Lie. See Lain.
Lier,n., One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment. 
Lieu,n., Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that is, instead of. 
Life,n., The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues; that state of an animal or plant in which all or any of its organs are capable of performing all or any of their functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable organisms. 
Lift,n., The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament.
Lige,v. t. & i., To lie; to tell lies.
Like,superl., Having the same, or nearly the same, appearance, qualities, or characteristics; resembling; similar to; similar; alike; -- often with in and the particulars of the resemblance; as, they are like each other in features, complexion, and many traits of character. 
Lill,v. i., To loll.
Lilt,v. i., To do anything with animation and quickness, as to skip, fly, or hop. 
Lily,n., A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbous plants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens, and a superior three-celled ovary. 
Lima,n., The capital city of Peru, in South America. 
Limb,n., A part of a tree which extends from the trunk and separates into branches and twigs; a large branch.
Lime,n., A thong by which a dog is led; a leash.
Limn,v. t., To draw or paint; especially, to represent in an artistic way with pencil or brush. 
Limp,v. i., To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively.
Limu,n., The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used as food, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc. 
Limy,a., Smeared with, or consisting of, lime; viscous. 
Lind,n., The linden. See Linden.
Line,n., Flax; linen.
Ling,a., A large, marine, gadoid fish (Molva vulgaris
Link,n., A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like. 
Lint,n., Flax.
Lion,n., A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo
Lire,pl. , of Lira
Lira,n., An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc.
Lisp,v. i., To pronounce the sibilant letter s imperfectly; to give s and z the sound of th; -- a defect common among children.
Liss,n., Release; remission; ease; relief.
List,n., A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground, or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists
Lite,adv., & n., Little. 
Lith,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth. 
Live,v. i., To be alive; to have life; to have, as an animal or a plant, the capacity of assimilating matter as food, and to be dependent on such assimilation for a continuance of existence; as, animals and plants that live to a great age are long in reaching maturity. 
Lixt,, 2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, -- contracted for ligest. 
Liza,n., The American white mullet (Mugil curema
Load,v., A burden; that which is laid on or put in anything for conveyance; that which is borne or sustained; a weight; as, a heavy load. 
Loaf,n., Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake. 
Loam,n., A kind of soil; an earthy mixture of clay and sand, with organic matter to which its fertility is chiefly due. 
Loan,n., A loanin.
Lobe,n., Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhat rounded form 
Loch,n., A lake; a bay or arm of the sea.
Lock,n., A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair. 
Loco,adv., A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper pitch after having played an octave higher.
Loci,pl. , of Locus
Loca,pl. , of Locus
Lode,n., A water course or way; a reach of water.
Loft,n., That which is lifted up; an elevation.
Loge,n., A lodge; a habitation.
Logy,a., Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logy horse. 
Loin,n., That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends on either side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the false ribs. In human beings the loins are also called the reins. See Illust. of Beef. 
Loir,n., A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis
Loki,n., The evil deity, the author of all calamities and mischief, answering to the African of the Persians. 
Loke,n., A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door. 
Loll,v. i., To act lazily or indolently; to recline; to lean; to throw one's self down; to lie at ease.
Loma,n., A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap.
Lond,n., Land.
Lone,n., A lane. See Loanin.
Long,superl., Drawn out in a line, or in the direction of length; protracted; extended; as, a long line; -- opposed to short, and distinguished from broad or wide. 
Loob,n., The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing.
Loof,n., The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Luffa Aegyptiaca
Look,v. i., To direct the eyes for the purpose of seeing something; to direct the eyes toward an object; to observe with the eyes while keeping them directed; -- with various prepositions, often in a special or figurative sense. See Phrases below. 
Lool,n., A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals.
Loom,n., See Loon, the bird. 
Loon,n., A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue.
Loop,n., A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball for the tilt hammer or rolls.
Loos,n., Praise; fame; reputation.
Loot,n., The act of plundering.
Lope,imp., of Leap.
Lord,n., A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively.
Lore,n., The space between the eye and bill, in birds, and the corresponding region in reptiles and fishes. 
Lori,n., Same as Lory.
Lorn,a., Lost; undone; ruined.
Lory,n., Any one of many species of small parrots of the family Trichoglossidae, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots. They are found in the East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and the adjacent islands. They feed mostly on soft fruits and on the honey of flowers. 
Lose,v. t., To part with unintentionally or unwillingly, as by accident, misfortune, negligence, penalty, forfeit, etc.; to be deprived of; as, to lose money from one's purse or pocket, or in business or gaming; to lose an arm or a leg by amputation; to lose men in battle. 
Loss,v. t., The act of losing; failure; destruction; privation; as, the loss of property; loss of money by gaming; loss of health or reputation. 
Lost,v. t., Parted with unwillingly or unintentionally; not to be found; missing; as, a lost book or sheep. 
Lote,n., A large tree (Celtis australis
Loth,a., Alt. of Lothsome
Loto,n., See Lotto.
Loud,superl., Having, making, or being a strong or great sound; noisy; striking the ear with great force; as, a loud cry; loud thunder. 
Louk,n., An accomplice; a   pal.   
Loup,n., See 1st Loop.
Lour,n., An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii
Lice,pl. , of Louse
Lout,v. i., To bend; to box; to stoop.
Love,n., A feeling of strong attachment induced by that which delights or commands admiration; preeminent kindness or devotion to another; affection; tenderness; as, the love of brothers and sisters. 
Lowh,, strong imp. of Laugh.
Lowk,n., See Louk.
Lown,n., A low fellow.
Luce,n., A pike when full grown.
Luck,n., That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill, affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance; chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristic fortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used for good luck; as, luck is better than skill. 
Lues,n., Disease, especially of a contagious kind. 
Luff,n., The side of a ship toward the wind.
Luke,a., Moderately warm; not hot; tepid.
Lull,v. t., To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm; to soothe; to quiet.
Lump,n., A small mass of matter of irregular shape; an irregular or shapeless mass; as, a lump of coal; a lump of iron ore. 
Luna,n., The moon.
Lune,n., Anything in the shape of a half moon.
Lung,n., An organ for aerial respiration; -- commonly in the plural.
Lunt,n., The match cord formerly used in firing cannon.
Luny,a., Crazy; mentally unsound.
Lure,n., A contrivance somewhat resembling a bird, and often baited with raw meat; -- used by falconers in recalling hawks. 
Lurg,n., A large marine annelid (Nephthys caeca
Lurk,v. i., To lie hid; to lie in wait.
Lush,a., Full of juice or succulence.
Lusk,a., Lazy; slothful.
Lust,n., Pleasure.
Lute,n., A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance for sealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, or for coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; -- called also luting. 
Luth,n., The leatherback.
Luxe,n., Luxury.
Lyam,n., A leash.
Lych,, See under Lich.
Lyme,, A coarse perennial grass of several species of Elymus, esp. E. Canadensis, and the European E. arenarius. 
Lyne,n., Linen.
Lynx,n., Any one of several species of feline animals of the genus Felis, and subgenus Lynx. They have a short tail, and usually a pencil of hair on the tip of the ears. 
Lyra,n., A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star of the first magnitude, called Alpha Lyrae, or Vega. 
Lyre,n., A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by the ancients, as an accompaniment to poetry. 
Maad,p. p., Made.
Maat,a., Dejected; sorrowful; downcast.
Mace,n., A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also, a weight of 57.98 grains. 
Made,n., See Mad, n. 
Mage,n., A magician.
Magi,n. pl., A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among the ancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East. 
Maha,n., A kind of baboon; the wanderoo.
Maia,n., A genus of spider crabs, including the common European species (Maia squinado
Maid,n., An unmarried woman; usually, a young unmarried woman; esp., a girl; a virgin; a maiden. 
Mail,n., A spot.
Maim,v. t., To deprive of the use of a limb, so as to render a person on fighting less able either to defend himself or to annoy his adversary. 
Main,n., A hand or match at dice.
Make,n., A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife. 
Made,imp. & p. p., of Make
Make,v. t., To cause to exist; to bring into being; to form; to produce; to frame; to fashion; to create.
Maki,n., A lemur. See Lemur.
Mala,n., Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law.
Male,a., Evil; wicked; bad.
Mall,n., A large heavy wooden beetle; a mallet for driving anything with force; a maul.
Malm,n., Alt. of Malmbrick
Malt,n., Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln, thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has been evolved. It is used in brewing and in the distillation of whisky. 
Mala,pl. , of Malum
Mama,n., See Mamma.
Mand,n., A demand.
Mane,n., The long and heavy hair growing on the upper side of, or about, the neck of some quadrupedal animals, as the horse, the lion, etc. See Illust. of Horse. 
Manu,n., One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors of human wisdom. 
Manx,a., Of or pertaining to the Isle of Man, or its inhabitants; as, the Manx language. 
Many,n., A retinue of servants; a household.
Mara,n., The principal or ruling evil spirit.
Marc,n., The refuse matter which remains after the pressure of fruit, particularly of grapes. 
Mare,n., The female of the horse and other equine quadrupeds.
Mark,n., A license of reprisals. See Marque.
Marl,v. t., To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecular hitch at each turn to prevent unwinding. 
Mars,n., The god of war and husbandry.
Mart,n., A market.
Mary,n., Marrow.
Mase,n. & v., See Maze.
Mash,n., A mesh.
Mask,n., A cover, or partial cover, for the face, used for disguise or protection; as, a dancer's mask; a fencer's mask; a ball player's mask. 
Mass,n., The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the consecration and oblation of the host. 
Mast,n., The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts; acorns. 
Mate,n., The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly (Ilex Paraguensis
Math,n., A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly used in composition; as, an aftermath. 
Matt,n., See Matte.
Maty,n., A native house servant in India.
Maud,n., A gray plaid; -- used by shepherds in Scotland.
Maul,n., A heavy wooden hammer or beetle.
Mawk,n., A maggot.
Maya,n., The name for the doctrine of the unreality of matter, called, in English, idealism; hence, nothingness; vanity; illusion. 
Maze,n., A wild fancy; a confused notion.
Mazy,a., Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate; confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error. 
Mead,n., A fermented drink made of water and honey with malt, yeast, etc.; metheglin; hydromel. 
Meak,n., A hook with a long handle.
Meal,n., A part; a fragment; a portion.
Mean,v. t., To have in the mind, as a purpose, intention, etc.; to intend; to purpose; to design; as, what do you mean to do ? 
Mear,n., A boundary. See Mere.
Meat,n., Food, in general; anything eaten for nourishment, either by man or beast. Hence, the edible part of anything; as, the meat of a lobster, a nut, or an egg. 
Meaw,n., The sea mew.
Mede,n., A native or inhabitant of Media in Asia.
Meed,n., That which is bestowed or rendered in consideration of merit; reward; recompense.
Meek,superl., Mild of temper; not easily provoked or orritated; patient under injuries; not vain, or haughty, or resentful; forbearing; submissive. 
Meer,a., Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. 
Meet,v. t., To join, or come in contact with; esp., to come in contact with by approach from an opposite direction; to come upon or against, front to front, as distinguished from contact by following and overtaking. 
Mega,, Alt. of Megalo-
Mell,v. i. & t., To mix; to meddle.
Melt,n., See 2d Milt.
Mend,v. t., To repair, as anything that is torn, broken, defaced, decayed, or the like; to restore from partial decay, injury, or defacement; to patch up; to put in shape or order again; to re-create; as, to mend a garment or a machine. 
Ment,p. p., of Menge
Menu,n., The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.
Meow,v. i. & n., See 6th and 7th Mew.
Merd,n., Ordure; dung.
Mere,n., A pool or lake.
Merk,n., An old Scotch silver coin; a mark or marc.
Merl,n., Alt. of Merle
Mesa,/., A high tableland; a plateau on a hill.
Mesh,n., The opening or space inclosed by the threads of a net between knot and knot, or the threads inclosing such a space; network; a net. 
Mess,n., Mass; church service.
Mest,a., Most.
Mete,n., Meat.
Meth,n., See Meathe.
Meve,v. t. & i., To move.
Mewl,v. i., To cry, as a young child; to squall. 
Mews,n. sing. & pl., An alley where there are stables; a narrow passage; a confined place.
Mias,n., The orang-outang.
Mica,n., The name of a group of minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic. They differ widely in composition, and vary in color from pale brown or yellow to green or black. The transparent forms are used in lanterns, the doors of stoves, etc., being popularly called isinglass. Formerly called also cat-silver, and glimmer. 
Mice,n., pl of Mouse.
Mich,v. i., Alt. of Miche
Mico,n., A small South American monkey (Mico melanurus
Mida,n., The larva of the bean fly.
Mien,n., Aspect; air; manner; demeanor; carriage; bearing.
Miff,n., A petty falling out; a tiff; a quarrel; offense.
Mild,superl., Gentle; pleasant; kind; soft; bland; clement; hence, moderate in degree or quality; -- the opposite of harsh, severe, irritating, violent, disagreeable, etc.; -- applied to persons and things; as, a mild disposition; a mild eye; a mild air; a mild medicine; a mild insanity. 
Mile,n., A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England and the United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet. 
Milk,n., A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and inorganic salts. 
Mill,n., A money of account of the United States, having the value of the tenth of a cent, or the thousandth of a dollar. 
Milt,n., The spleen.
Mime,n., A kind of drama in which real persons and events were generally represented in a ridiculous manner.
Mina,n., An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value. The Attic mina was valued at a hundred drachmas. 
Mind,v., The intellectual or rational faculty in man; the understanding; the intellect; the power that conceives, judges, or reasons; also, the entire spiritual nature; the soul; -- often in distinction from the body. 
Mine,n., See Mien.
Mink,n., A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to the weasel. The European mink is Putorius lutreola. The common American mink (P. vison
Mino,, An Asiatic bird (Gracula musica
Mint,n., The name of several aromatic labiate plants, mostly of the genus Mentha, yielding odoriferous essential oils by distillation. See Mentha. 
Minx,n., A pert or a wanton girl.
Miny,a., Abounding with mines; like a mine.
Mira,n., A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (/ Ceti
Mire,n., An ant.
Mirk,a., Dark; gloomy; murky.
Miry,a., Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road. 
Mise,n., The issue in a writ of right.
Migo,v. i., To go astray.
Miss,n., A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a girl or a woman who has not been married. See Mistress, 5. 
Mist,n., Visible watery vapor suspended in the atmosphere, at or near the surface of the earth; fog. 
Misy,n., An impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas or copiapite.
Mite,n., A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there are many species; as, the cheese mite, sugar mite, harvest mite, etc. See Acarina. 
Mitt,n., A mitten; also, a covering for the wrist and hand and not for the fingers. 
Mitu,n., A South American curassow of the genus Mitua.
Mity,a., Having, or abounding with, mites. 
Mixt,, of Mix
Moan,v. i., To make a low prolonged sound of grief or pain, whether articulate or not; to groan softly and continuously. 
Moat,n., A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortified place, sometimes filled with water; a ditch. 
Mock,v. t., To imitate; to mimic; esp., to mimic in sport, contempt, or derision; to deride by mimicry. 
Moco,n., A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris
Mode,n., Manner of doing or being; method; form; fashion; custom; way; style; as, the mode of speaking; the mode of dressing. 
Modi,pl. , of Modus
Mody,a., Fashionable.
Moff,n., A thin silk stuff made in Caucasia.
Moha,n., A kind of millet (Setaria Italica
Moho,n., A gallinule (Notornis Mantelli
Mohr,n., A West African gazelle (Gazella mohr
Moil,v. t., To daub; to make dirty; to soil; to defile.
Moke,n., A donkey.
Moky,a., Misty; dark; murky; muggy.
Mola,n., See Sunfish, 1. 
Mold,n., A spot; a blemish; a mole.
Mole,n., A spot; a stain; a mark which discolors or disfigures.
Moll,a., Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor. 
Molt,, imp. of Melt.
Moly,n., A fabulous herb of occult power, having a black root and white blossoms, said by Homer to have been given by Hermes to Ulysses to counteract the spells of Circe. 
Mome,n., A dull, silent person; a blockhead. 
Mona,n., A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey (Cercopithecus mona
Mone,n., The moon.
Monk,n., A man who retires from the ordinary temporal concerns of the world, and devotes himself to religion; one of a religious community of men inhabiting a monastery, and bound by vows to a life of chastity, obedience, and poverty. 
Mono,n., The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus
Mont,n., Mountain.
Mood,n., Manner; style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of action or being. See Mode which is the preferable form
Moon,n., The celestial orb which revolves round the earth; the satellite of the earth; a secondary planet, whose light, borrowed from the sun, is reflected to the earth, and serves to dispel the darkness of night. The diameter of the moon is 2,160 miles, its mean distance from the earth is 240,000 miles, and its mass is one eightieth that of the earth. See Lunar month, under Month. 
Moor,n., One of a mixed race inhabiting Morocco, Algeria, Tunis, and Tripoli, chiefly along the coast and in towns. 
Moot,v., See 1st Mot.
Mope,v. i., To be dull and spiritless.
Mora,n., A game of guessing the number of fingers extended in a quick movement of the hand, -- much played by Italians of the lower classes. 
More,n., A hill.
Morn,n., The first part of the day; the morning; -- used chiefly in poetry.
Moro,n., A small abscess or tumor having a resemblance to a mulberry.
Mort,n., A great quantity or number.
Mosk,n., See Mosque.
Moss,n., A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinct stem and simple leaves. The fruit is a small capsule usually opening by an apical lid, and so discharging the spores. There are many species, collectively termed Musci, growing on the earth, on rocks, and trunks of trees, etc., and a few in running water. 
Most,a., Consisting of the greatest number or quantity; greater in number or quantity than all the rest; nearly all.
Mote,, of Mot
Moot,, of Mot
Mote,, of Mot
Moth,n., A mote.
Moto,n., Movement; manner of movement; particularly, movement with increased rapidity; -- used especially in the phrase con moto, directing to a somewhat quicker movement; as, andante con moto, a little more rapidly than andante, etc. 
Moun,v., pl. of Mow, may. 
Mice,pl. , of Mouse
Move,v. t., To cause to change place or posture in any manner; to set in motion; to carry, convey, draw, or push from one place to another; to impel; to stir; as, the wind moves a vessel; the horse moves a carriage. 
Mowe,pl., of Mow
Moun,, of Mow
Mown,, of Mow
Mowe,v., See 4th Mow.
Mown,p. p. & a., Cut down by mowing, as grass; deprived of grass by mowing; as, a mown field. 
Moxa,n., A soft woolly mass prepared from the young leaves of Artemisia Chinensis, and used as a cautery by burning it on the skin; hence, any substance used in a like manner, as cotton impregnated with niter, amadou. 
Moya,n., Mud poured out from volcanoes during eruptions; -- so called in South America.
Mrs.,, The customary abbreviation of Mistress when used as a title of courtesy, in writing and printing. 
Muce,n., See Muse, and Muset. 
Much,Compar. & superl. wanting, but supplied by, Great in quantity; long in duration; as, much rain has fallen; much time. 
Muck,, abbreviation of Amuck.
Muff,n., A soft cover of cylindrical form, usually of fur, worn by women to shield the hands from cold. 
Mule,n., A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass and a mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass. See Hinny. 
Mull,n., A thin, soft kind of muslin. 
Mumm,v. i., To sport or make diversion in a mask or disguise; to mask.
Mump,v. i., To move the lips with the mouth closed; to mumble, as in sulkiness. 
Mund,n., See Mun.
Mung,n., Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo
Mure,n., A wall.
Murk,a., Dark; murky.
Murr,n., A catarrh.
Musa,n., A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of great size, including the banana (Musa sapientum
Muse,n., A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset. 
Mush,n., Meal (esp. Indian meal
Musk,n., A substance of a reddish brown color, and when fresh of the consistence of honey, obtained from a bag being behind the navel of the male musk deer. It has a slightly bitter taste, but is specially remarkable for its powerful and enduring odor. It is used in medicine as a stimulant antispasmodic. The term is also applied to secretions of various other animals, having a similar odor. 
Muss,n., A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be taken by those who can seize them; a confused struggle. 
Must,v. i. / auxiliary, To be obliged; to be necessitated; -- expressing either physical or moral necessity; as, a man must eat for nourishment; we must submit to the laws. 
Mute,v. t., To cast off; to molt.
Muxy,a., Soft; sticky, and dirty. 
Myna,n., Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the genera Acridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera. In habits they resemble the European starlings, and like them are often caged and taught to talk. See Hill myna, under Hill, and Mino bird. 
Myth,n., A story of great but unknown age which originally embodied a belief regarding some fact or phenomenon of experience, and in which often the forces of nature and of the soul are personified; an ancient legend of a god, a hero, the origin of a race, etc.; a wonder story of prehistoric origin; a popular fable which is, or has been, received as historical. 
Myxa,n., The distal end of the mandibles of a bird.
Nabk,n., The edible berries of the Zizyphys Lotus, a tree of Northern Africa, and Southwestern Europe. 
Naid,n., Any one of numerous species of small, fresh-water, chaetopod annelids of the tribe Naidina. They belong to the Oligochaeta. 
Naif,a., Having a true natural luster without being cut; -- applied by jewelers to a precious stone.
Naik,n., A chief; a leader; a Sepoy corporal.
Nail,n., the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingers and toes of man and many apes.
Nais,n., See Naiad.
Nake,v.t., To make naked.
Nale,n., Ale; also, an alehouse. 
Nall,n., An awl.
Name,n., The title by which any person or thing is known or designated; a distinctive specific appellation, whether of an individual or a class. 
Namo,adv., No more.
Naos,n., A term used by modern archaeologists instead of cella. See Cella.
Nape,n., The back part of the neck.
Napu,n., A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus
Nard,n., An East Indian plant (Nardostachys Jatamansi
Nare,n., A nostril.
Nart,, Art not.
Nash,a., Firm; stiff; hard; also, chilly. 
Nath,, hath not.
Nave,n., The block in the center of a wheel, from which the spokes radiate, and through which the axle passes; -- called also hub or hob. 
Navy,n., A fleet of ships; an assemblage of merchantmen, or so many as sail in company. 
Nawl,n., An awl.
Nays,pl. , of Nay
Nayt,v. t., To refuse; to deny.
Naze,n., A promotory or headland.
Neaf,n., See 2d Neif.
Neal,v. t., To anneal.
Neap,n., The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by two animals.
Near,adv., At a little distance, in place, time, manner, or degree; not remote; nigh. 
Neat,n. sing. & pl., Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep, and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat's foot. 
Neck,n., The part of an animal which connects the head and the trunk, and which, in man and many other animals, is more slender than the trunk. 
Need,n., A state that requires supply or relief; pressing occasion for something; necessity; urgent want.
Neem,, An Asiatic name for Melia Azadirachta, and M. Azedarach. See Margosa. 
Neer,adv. & a., Nearer.
Neif,n., Alt. of Neife
Neaf,n., The fist.
Nems,n., The ichneumon.
Nepa,n., A genus of aquatic hemipterus insects. The species feed upon other insects and are noted for their voracity; -- called also scorpion bug and water scorpion.
Nere,, Were not.
Nero,n., A Roman emperor notorius for debauchery and barbarous cruelty; hence, any profligate and cruel ruler or merciless tyrant. 
Nese,n., Nose.
Nesh,a., Soft; tender; delicate.
Ness,n., A promontory; a cape; a headland.
Nest,n., The bed or receptacle prepared by a fowl for holding her eggs and for hatching and rearing her young.
Neve,n., The upper part of a glacier, above the limit or perpetual snow. See Galcier. 
News,n, A report of recent occurences; information of something that has lately taken place, or of something before unknown; fresh tindings; recent intelligence. 
Newt,n., Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders. The common British species are the crested newt (Triton cristatus
Next,superl., Nearest in place; having no similar object intervening.
Nias,n., A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person. 
Nice,superl., Foolish; silly; simple; ignorant; also, weak; effeminate. 
Nick,n., An evil spirit of the waters.
Nide,n., A nestful; a brood; as, a nide of pheasants. 
nidi,pl. , of Nidus
Nief,n., See Neif, the fist. 
Nigh,superl., Not distant or remote in place or time; near.
Nile,n., The great river of Egypt.
Nill,v. t., Not to will; to refuse; to reject.
Nilt,, Wilt not.
Nome,, of Nim
Nine,a., Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles. 
Nipt,, of Nip
Nisi,conj., Unless; if not.
Noes,pl. , of No
Noah,n., A patriarch of Biblical history, in the time of the Deluge. 
Nock,n., A notch.
Node,n., A knot, a knob; a protuberance; a swelling. 
Noel,n., Same as Nowel.
Noie,v. t., To annoy. See Noy.
Nole,n., The head.
Noll,n., The head; the noddle.
Nolo,, A plea, by the defendant, in a criminal prosecution, which, without admitting guilt, subjects him to all the consequences of a plea of quilty. 
Nol.,, An abbrev. of Nolle prosequi.
Nolt,n. sing. & pl., Neat cattle.
Noma,n., See Canker, n., 1. 
Nome,n., A province or political division, as of modern Greece or ancient Egypt; a nomarchy. 
None,a., No one; not one; not anything; -- frequently used also partitively, or as a plural, not any. 
Nook,n., A narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies; a corner; a recess; a secluded retreat.
Noon,a., No. See the Note under No.
Noot,, See lst Not.
Nope,n., A bullfinch.
Norm,a., A rule or authoritative standard; a model; a type.
Norn,n., Alt. of Norna
Nose,n., The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory organ. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory. 
Nost,, Wottest not; knowest not.
Note,v. t., To butt; to push with the horns.
Nott,a., Shorn.
Nota,pl. , of Notum
Noun,n., A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive. 
Nous,n., Intellect; understanding; talent; -- used humorously.
Nowd,n., The European gray gurnard (Trigla gurnardus
Nowt,n. pl., Neat cattle.
Nude,a., Bare; naked; unclothed; undraped; as, a nude statue. 
Null,a., Of no legal or binding force or validity; of no efficacy; invalid; void; nugatory; useless.
Numb,a., Enfeebled in, or destitute of, the power of sensation and motion; rendered torpid; benumbed; insensible; as, the fingers or limbs are numb with cold. 
Nurl,v. t., To cut with reeding or fluting on the edge of, as coins, the heads of screws, etc.; to knurl. 
Nyas,n., See Nias.
Oaky,n., Resembling oak; strong.
Oary,a., Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet. 
Oast,n., A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.
Oats,pl. , of Oat
Oath,n., A solemn affirmation or declaration, made with a reverent appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed. 
Obbe,n., See Obi.
Obey,v. t., To give ear to; to execute the commands of; to yield submission to; to comply with the orders of.
Obit,n., Death; decease; the date of one's death.
Oboe,n., One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed; a hautboy. 
Ocra,n., See Okra.
Odds,a., Difference in favor of one and against another; excess of one of two things or numbers over the other; inequality; advantage; superiority; hence, excess of chances; probability. 
Odic,a., Of or pertaining to od. See Od.
Odin,n., The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes. 
Odor,n., Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume. 
Odyl,n., Alt. of Odyle
O'er,prep. & adv., A contr. of Over.
Ogam,n., Same as Ogham.
Ogee,n., A molding, the section of which is the form of the letter S, with the convex part above; cyma reversa. See Illust. under Cyma. 
Ogle,v. t., To view or look at with side glances, as in fondness, or with a design to attract notice. 
Ogre,n., An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, who lived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster. 
Oily,superl., Consisting of oil; containing oil; having the nature or qualities of oil; unctuous; oleaginous; as, oily matter or substance. 
Oint,v. t., To anoint.
Oker,n., See Ocher.
Okra,n., An annual plant (Abelmoschus, / Hibiscus, esculentus
Olay,n. pl., Palm leaves, prepared for being written upon with a style pointed with steel. 
Olea,n., A genus of trees including the olive.
Olid,a., Alt. of Olidous
Olio,n., A dish of stewed meat of different kinds.
Olla,n., A pot or jar having a wide mouth; a cinerary urn, especially one of baked clay. 
Olpe,n., Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids; afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout. 
Omen,n., An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of, some future event; any indication or action regarded as a foreshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury. 
Omer,n., A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. 
Omit,v. t., To let go; to leave unmentioned; not to insert or name; to drop.
Ince,n., The ounce.
Once,adv., By limitation to the number one; for one time; not twice nor any number of times more than one.
Onde,n., Hatred; fury; envy.
Ones,adv., Once.
Only,a., One alone; single; as, the only man present; his only occupation. 
Onto,prep., On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep. 
Onus,n., A burden; an obligation.
Onyx,n., Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color. It is used for making cameos, the figure being cut in one layer with the next as a ground. 
Ooze,n., Soft mud or slime; earth so wet as to flow gently, or easily yield to pressure. 
Oozy,a., Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed of a river. 
Opah,n., A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus
Opal,n., A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity. 
Open,a., Free of access; not shut up; not closed; affording unobstructed ingress or egress; not impeding or preventing passage; not locked up or covered over; -- applied to passageways; as, an open door, window, road, etc.; also, to inclosed structures or objects; as, open houses, boxes, baskets, bottles, etc.; also, to means of communication or approach by water or land; as, an open harbor or roadstead. 
Opie,n., Opium.
Ople,, The witch-hazel.
Opus,n., A work; specif. (Mus.
Opye,n., Opium.
Oral,a., Uttered by the mouth, or in words; spoken, not written; verbal; as, oral traditions; oral testimony; oral law. 
Orby,a., Orblike; having the course of an orb; revolving.
Orfe,n., A bright-colored domesticated variety of the id. See Id.
Orgy,n., A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies
Orle,n., A bearing, in the form of a fillet, round the shield, within, but at some distance from, the border. 
Orlo,n., A wind instrument of music in use among the Spaniards.
Orts,pl. , of Ort
Oryx,n., A genus of African antelopes which includes the gemsbok, the leucoryx, the bisa antelope (O. beisa
Ossa,pl. , of Os
Osar,pl. , of Os
Osse,n., A prophetic or ominous utterance.
Otic,a., Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the ear; auricular; auditory. 
Otis,n., A genus of birds including the bustards.
Otto,n., See Attar.
Ouch,n., A socket or bezel holding a precious stone; hence, a jewel or ornament worn on the person. 
Ours,possessive pron., See Note under Our.
Ouse,n. & v., See Ooze.
Oust,n., See Oast.
Ouze,n. & v., See Ooze.
Oval,a., Of or pertaining to eggs; done in the egg, or inception; as, oval conceptions. 
Oven,n., A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used for baking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed or portable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, a chamber in a stove, used for baking or roasting. 
Over,prep., Above, or higher than, in place or position, with the idea of covering; -- opposed to under; as, clouds are over our heads; the smoke rises over the city. 
Ovum,n., A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granular protoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth develops into a mass of cells, constituting a new individual like the parent; an egg, spore, germ, or germ cell. See Illust. of Mycropyle. 
Owch,n., See Ouch.
Owed,imp. & p. p., of Owe
Owel,a., Equal.
Owen,a., Own.
Owre,n., The aurochs.
Owse,n., Alt. of Owser
Oxen,pl. , of Ox
Oxid,n., See Oxide.
Oyer,n., A hearing or an inspection, as of a deed, bond, etc., as when a defendant in court prays oyer of a writing. 
Oyez,interj., Hear; attend; -- a term used by criers of courts to secure silence before making a proclamation. It is repeated three times.
Paas,n., Pace
Paca,n., A small South American rodent (Coelogenys paca
Pace,n., A single movement from one foot to the other in walking; a step.
Pack,n., A pact.
Paco,n., Alt. of Pacos
Pact,v., An agreement; a league; a compact; a covenant.
Pacu,n., A South American freah-water fish (Myleies pacu
Page,n., A serving boy; formerly, a youth attending a person of high degree, especially at courts, as a position of honor and education; now commonly, in England, a youth employed for doing errands, waiting on the door, and similar service in households; in the United States, a boy employed to wait upon the members of a legislative body. 
Pahi,n., A large war canoe of the Society Islands.
Paid,imp., p. p., & a., Receiving pay; compensated; hired; as, a paid attorney. 
Pail,n., A vessel of wood or tin, etc., usually cylindrical and having a bail, -- used esp. for carrying liquids, as water or milk, etc.; a bucket. It may, or may not, have a cover. 
Pain,n., Punishment suffered or denounced; suffering or evil inflicted as a punishment for crime, or connected with the commission of a crime; penalty. 
Pair,n., A number of things resembling one another, or belonging together; a set; as, a pair or flight of stairs.   A pair of beads.   Chaucer. Beau. & Fl.   Four pair of stairs.   Macaulay. [Now mostly or quite disused, except as to stairs.] 
Pais,n., The country; the people of the neighborhood.
Pale,v. i., Wanting in color; not ruddy; dusky white; pallid; wan; as, a pale face; a pale red; a pale blue. 
Pali,n., pl. of Palus.
Pall,n., Same as Pawl.
Palm,n., The inner and somewhat concave part of the hand between the bases of the fingers and the wrist.
Palp,n., Same as Palpus.
Pali,pl. , of Palus
Paly,a., Pale; wanting color; dim.
Pane,n., The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen.
Pang,n., A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe; as, the pangs of death. 
Pant,v. i., To breathe quickly or in a labored manner, as after exertion or from eagerness or excitement; to respire with heaving of the breast; to gasp. 
Papa,n., A child's word for father.
Pape,n., A spiritual father; specifically, the pope. 
Para,n., A piece of Turkish money, usually copper, the fortieth part of a piaster, or about one ninth of a cent. 
Pard,n., A leopard; a panther.
Pare,v. t., To cut off, or shave off, the superficial substance or extremities of; as, to pare an apple; to pare a horse's hoof. 
Park,n., A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant. 
Parr,n., A young salmon in the stage when it has dark transverse bands; -- called also samlet, skegger, and fingerling. 
Part,n., One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with others, a larger number, quantity, mass, etc., whether actually separate or not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent. 
Pash,v. t., To strike; to crush; to smash; to dash in pieces.
Pask,n., See Pasch.
Pass,v. i., To go; to move; to proceed; to be moved or transferred from one point to another; to make a transit; -- usually with a following adverb or adverbal phrase defining the kind or manner of motion; as, to pass on, by, out, in, etc.; to pass swiftly, directly, smoothly, etc.; to pass to the rear, under the yoke, over the bridge, across the field, beyond the border, etc. 
Past,v., Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences. 
Pate,a., See Patte.
Path,n., A trodden way; a footway.
Paul,n., See Pawl.
Paum,v. t. & i., To palm off by fraud; to cheat at cards.
Pave,n., The pavement.
Pavo,n., A genus of birds, including the peacocks. 
Pawk,n., A small lobster.
Pawl,n., A pivoted tongue, or sliding bolt, on one part of a machine, adapted to fall into notches, or interdental spaces, on another part, as a ratchet wheel, in such a manner as to permit motion in one direction and prevent it in the reverse, as in a windlass; a catch, click, or detent. See Illust. of Ratchet Wheel. 
Pawn,n., See Pan, the masticatory. 
Paid,imp. & p. p., of Pay
Payn,n., Bread. Having
Peas,pl. , of Pea
Peak,n., A point; the sharp end or top of anything that terminates in a point; as, the peak, or front, of a cap. 
Peal,n., A small salmon; a grilse; a sewin.
Pean,n., One of the furs, the ground being sable, and the spots or tufts or. 
Pear,n., The fleshy pome, or fruit, of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus communis
Peat,n., A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously.
Peba,n., An armadillo (Tatusia novemcincta
Peck,n., The fourth part of a bushel; a dry measure of eight quarts; as, a peck of wheat. 
Peek,v. i., To look slyly, or with the eyes half closed, or through a crevice; to peep. 
Peel,n., A small tower, fort, or castle; a keep. 
Peen,n., A round-edged, or hemispherical, end to the head of a hammer or sledge, used to stretch or bend metal by indentation. 
Peep,v. i., To cry, as a chicken hatching or newly hatched; to chirp; to cheep. 
Peer,v. i., To come in sight; to appear.
Pegm,n., A sort of moving machine employed in the old pageants.
Pein,n., See Peen.
Pela,n., See Wax insect, under Wax. 
Pelf,n., Money; riches; lucre; gain; -- generally conveying the idea of something ill-gotten or worthless. It has no plural.
Pell,v. t., To pelt; to knock about.
Pelt,n., The skin of a beast with the hair on; a raw or undressed hide; a skin preserved with the hairy or woolly covering on it. See 4th Fell.
Pent,, of Pen
Pend,n., Oil cake; penock.
Penk,n., A minnow. See Pink, n., 4. 
Pens,n., pl. of Penny.
Pent,v. t., Penned or shut up; confined; -- often with up.
Peon,n., See Poon.
Pepo,n., Any fleshy fruit with a firm rind, as a pumpkin, melon, or gourd. See Gourd. 
Pere,n., A peer.
Peri,n., An imaginary being, male or female, like an elf or fairy, represented as a descendant of fallen angels, excluded from paradise till penance is accomplished. 
Perk,v. t., To make trim or smart; to straighten up; to erect; to make a jaunty or saucy display of; as, to perk the ears; to perk up one's head. 
Pern,v. t., To take profit of; to make profitable.
Pers,a., Light blue; grayish blue; -- a term applied to different shades at different periods.
Pert,a., Open; evident; apert.
Pery,n., A pear tree. See Pirie.
Pese,n., A pea.
Peso,n., A Spanish dollar; also, an Argentine, Chilian, Colombian, etc., coin, equal to from 75 cents to a dollar; also, a pound weight. 
Pest,n., A fatal epidemic disease; a pestilence; specif., the plague. 
Phiz,n., The face or visage.
Phyz,n., See Phiz.
Pied,imp. & p. p., of Pi
Pial,a., Pertaining to the pia mater.
Pian,n., The yaws. See Yaws.
Pica,n., The genus that includes the magpies.
Pice,n., A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent. 
Pici,n. pl., A division of birds including the woodpeckers and wrynecks.
Pick,v., To throw; to pitch.
Pici,pl. , of Picus
Pied,, imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v. 
Pier,n., Any detached mass of masonry, whether insulated or supporting one side of an arch or lintel, as of a bridge; the piece of wall between two openings. 
Piet,n., The dipper, or water ouzel. 
Pigg,n., A piggin. See 1st Pig.
Pika,n., Any one of several species of rodents of the genus Lagomys, resembling small tailless rabbits. They inhabit the high mountains of Asia and America. Called also calling hare, and crying hare. See Chief hare. 
Pike,n. & v., A foot soldier's weapon, consisting of a long wooden shaft or staff, with a pointed steel head. It is now superseded by the bayonet. 
Pile,n., A hair; hence, the fiber of wool, cotton, and the like; also, the nap when thick or heavy, as of carpeting and velvet. 
Pill,n., The peel or skin.
Pily,a., Like pile or wool.
Pimp,n., One who provides gratification for the lust of others; a procurer; a pander.
Pi?a,, A fine material for ladies' shawls, scarfs, handkerchiefs, etc., made from the fiber of the pineapple leaf, and perhaps from other fibrous tropical leaves. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a slight tinge of pale yellow. 
Pine,n., Woe; torment; pain.
Ping,n., The sound made by a bullet in striking a solid object or in passing through the air.
Pink,n., A vessel with a very narrow stern; -- called also pinky.
Pint,n., A measure of capacity, equal to half a quart, or four gills, -- used in liquid and dry measures. See Quart. 
Piny,a., Abounding with pines.
Piot,n., The magpie.
Pipa,n., The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana
Pipe,n., A wind instrument of music, consisting of a tube or tubes of straw, reed, wood, or metal; any tube which produces musical sounds; as, a shepherd's pipe; the pipe of an organ. 
Pipy,a., Like a pipe; hollow-stemmed.
Pirl,v. t., To spin, as a top. 
Pirn,n., A quill or reed on which thread or yarn is wound; a bobbin; also, the wound yarn on a weaver's shuttle; also, the reel of a fishing rod. 
Pise,n., A species of wall made of stiff earth or clay rammed in between molds which are carried up as the wall rises; -- called also pise work.
Pish,interj., An exclamation of contempt.
Piss,v. t. & i., To discharge urine, to urinate. 
Pist,n., See Piste.
Pita,n., A fiber obtained from the Agave Americana and other related species, -- used for making cordage and paper. Called also pita fiber, and pita thread. 
Pith,n., The soft spongy substance in the center of the stems of many plants and trees, especially those of the dicotyledonous or exogenous classes. It consists of cellular tissue. 
Pity,n., Piety.
Pixy,n., Alt. of Pixie
Plan,a., A draught or form; properly, a representation drawn on a plane, as a map or a chart; especially, a top view, as of a machine, or the representation or delineation of a horizontal section of anything, as of a building; a graphic representation; a diagram. 
Plat,v. t., To form by interlaying interweaving; to braid; to plait.
Play,n., To engage in sport or lively recreation; to exercise for the sake of amusement; to frolic; to spot.
Plea,n., That which is alleged by a party in support of his cause; in a stricter sense, an allegation of fact in a cause, as distinguished from a demurrer; in a still more limited sense, and in modern practice, the defendant's answer to the plaintiff's declaration and demand. That which the plaintiff alleges in his declaration is answered and repelled or justified by the defendant's plea. In chancery practice, a plea is a special answer showing or relying upon one or more things as a cause why the suit should be either dismissed, delayed, or barred. In criminal practice, the plea is the defendant's formal answer to the indictment or information presented against him. 
Pled,, of Plead
Pley,v. & n., See Play.
Plim,v. i., To swell, as grain or wood with water. 
Ploc,n., A mixture of hair and tar for covering the bottom of a ship.
Plod,v. i., To travel slowly but steadily; to trudge.
Plot,n., A small extent of ground; a plat; as, a garden plot. 
Plow,n., Alt. of Plough
Ploy,n., Sport; frolic.
Plug,n., Any piece of wood, metal, or other substance used to stop or fill a hole; a stopple. 
Plum,n., The edible drupaceous fruit of the Prunus domestica, and of several other species of Prunus; also, the tree itself, usually called plum tree. 
Plus,a., More, required to be added; positive, as distinguished from negative; -- opposed to minus. 
Pnyx,n., The place at Athens where the meetings of the people were held for making decrees, etc. 
Poak,n., Alt. of Poake
Pock,n., A pustule raised on the surface of the body in variolous and vaccine diseases.
Poco,adv., A little; -- used chiefly in phrases indicating the time or movement; as, poco piu allegro, a little faster; poco largo, rather slow. 
Poem,n., A metrical composition; a composition in verse written in certain measures, whether in blank verse or in rhyme, and characterized by imagination and poetic diction; -- contradistinguished from prose; as, the poems of Homer or of Milton. 
Poet,n., One skilled in making poetry; one who has a particular genius for metrical composition; the author of a poem; an imaginative thinker or writer.
Pogy,n., The menhaden.
Poke,n., A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca (P. decandra
Poky,a., Confined; cramped.
Pole,n., A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Polander.
Poll,n., A parrot; -- familiarly so called.
Polo,n., A game of ball of Eastern origin, resembling hockey, with the players on horseback. 
Polt,n., A blow or thump.
Poly,n., A whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium
Pome,n., A fruit composed of several cartilaginous or bony carpels inclosed in an adherent fleshy mass, which is partly receptacle and partly calyx, as an apple, quince, or pear. 
Pomp,n., A procession distinguished by ostentation and splendor; a pageant.
Pond,n., A body of water, naturally or artificially confined, and usually of less extent than a lake. 
Pone,n., A kind of johnnycake.
Pons,n., A bridge; -- applied to several parts which connect others, but especially to the pons Varolii, a prominent band of nervous tissue situated on the ventral side of the medulla oblongata and connected at each side with the hemispheres of the cerebellum; the mesocephalon. See Brain. 
Pony,n., A small horse.
Pood,n., A Russian weight, equal to forty Russian pounds or about thirty-six English pounds avoirdupois. 
Pooh,interj., Pshaw! pish! nonsense! -- an expression of scorn, dislike, or contempt. 
Pool,n., A small and rather deep collection of water.
Poon,n., A name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon. 
Poop,n., See 2d Poppy.
Poor,superl., Destitute of property; wanting in material riches or goods; needy; indigent.
Pope,n., Any ecclesiastic, esp. a bishop. 
Pore,v., One of the minute orifices in an animal or vegetable membrane, for transpiration, absorption, etc. 
Pork,n., The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food. 
Port,n., A place where ships may ride secure from storms.
Pory,a., Porous; as, pory stone. [R.] Dryden. 
Pose,a., Standing still, with all the feet on the ground; -- said of the attitude of a lion, horse, or other beast. 
Poss,v. t., To push; to dash; to throw.
Post,a., Hired to do what is wrong; suborned.
Posy,n., A brief poetical sentiment; hence, any brief sentiment, motto, or legend; especially, one inscribed on a ring. 
Pott,n., A size of paper. See under Paper.
Poup,v. i., See Powp.
Pour,a., Poor.
Pout,n., The young of some birds, as grouse; a young fowl. 
Powp,v. i., See Poop, v. i. 
Poze,v. t., See 5th Pose.
Prad,n., A horse.
Pram,n., Alt. of Prame
Pray,n. & v., See Pry.
Prey,n., Anything, as goods, etc., taken or got by violence; anything taken by force from an enemy in war; spoil; booty; plunder. 
Prie,n., The plant privet.
Prig,v. i., To haggle about the price of a commodity; to bargain hard.
Prim,n., The privet.
Pris,n., See Price, and 1st Prize. 
Proa,n., A sailing canoe of the Ladrone Islands and Malay Archipelago, having its lee side flat and its weather side like that of an ordinary boat. The ends are alike. The canoe is long and narrow, and is kept from overturning by a cigar-shaped log attached to a frame extending several feet to windward. It has been called the flying proa, and is the swiftest sailing craft known. 
Prod,n., A pointed instrument for pricking or puncturing, as a goad, an awl, a skewer, etc. 
Prog,v. i., To wander about and beg; to seek food or other supplies by low arts; to seek for advantage by mean shift or tricks.
Prop,n., A shell, used as a die. See Props. 
Prow,n., The fore part of a vessel; the bow; the stem; hence, the vessel itself. 
Prox,n.,   The ticket or list of candidates at elections, presented to the people for their votes.   
Puce,a., Of a dark brown or brownish purple color.
Puck,n., A celebrated fairy,   the merry wanderer of the night;   -- called also Robin Goodfellow, Friar Rush, Pug, etc. 
Pudu,n., A very small deer (Pudua humilis
Pued,imp. & p. p., of Pue
Puer,n., The dung of dogs, used as an alkaline steep in tanning. 
Puet,n., The pewit.
Puff,n., A sudden and single emission of breath from the mouth; hence, any sudden or short blast of wind; a slight gust; a whiff. 
Pugh,interj., Pshaw! pish! -- a word used in contempt or disdain.
Puit,n., A well; a small stream; a fountain; a spring.
Puke,v. i., To eject the contests of the stomach; to vomit; to spew.
Pule,v. i., To cry like a chicken.
Pull,v. t., To draw, or attempt to draw, toward one; to draw forcibly. 
Pulp,n., A moist, slightly cohering mass, consisting of soft, undissolved animal or vegetable matter. 
Pult,v. t., To put.
Pulu,n., A vegetable substance consisting of soft, elastic, yellowish brown chaff, gathered in the Hawaiian Islands from the young fronds of free ferns of the genus Cibotium, chiefly C. Menziesii; -- used for stuffing mattresses, cushions, etc., and as an absorbent. 
Puma,n., A large American carnivore (Felis concolor
Pume,n., A stint.
Pump,n., A low shoe with a thin sole.
Pumy,a., Large and rounded.
Pung,n., A kind of plain sleigh drawn by one horse; originally, a rude oblong box on runners. 
Punk,n., Wood so decayed as to be dry, crumbly, and useful for tinder; touchwood. 
Punt,v. i., To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble. 
Puny,superl., Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble; inferior; petty.
Puoy,n., Same as Poy, n., 3. 
Pup/,pl. , of Pupa
Pupa,n., Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis which usually immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage. 
Pupe,n., A pupa.
Pure,superl., Separate from all heterogeneous or extraneous matter; free from mixture or combination; clean; mere; simple; unmixed; as, pure water; pure clay; pure air; pure compassion. 
Puri,n., See Euxanthin.
Purl,v. t., To decorate with fringe or embroidery.
Purr,v. i. & t., To murmur as a cat. See Pur.
Push,n., A pustule; a pimple.
Puss,n., A cat; -- a fondling appellation.
Pyet,n., A magpie; a piet.
Pyin,n., An albuminoid constituent of pus, related to mucin, possibly a mixture of substances rather than a single body. 
Pyla,n., The passage between the iter and optocoele in the brain.
Pyne,n. & v., See Pine.
Pyot,n., The magpie. See Piet.
Pyre,n., A funeral pile; a combustible heap on which the dead are burned; hence, any pile to be burnt. 
Pyro,n., Abbreviation of pyrogallic acid.
Quab,n., An unfledged bird; hence, something immature or unfinished. 
Quad,a., Alt. of Quade
Quag,n., A quagmire.
Quap,v. i., To quaver.
Quar,n., A quarry.
Quas,n., A kind of beer. Same as Quass.
Quat,n., A pustule.
Quay,n., A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in loading and unloading vessels. 
Quet,n., The common guillemot.
Quey,n., A heifer.
Quib,n., A quip; a gibe.
Quid,n., A portion suitable to be chewed; a cud; as, a quid of tobacco. 
Quin,n., A European scallop (Pecten opercularis
Quip,n., A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a gibe. 
Quit,n., Any one of numerous species of small passerine birds native of tropical America. See Banana quit, under Banana, and Guitguit. 
Quiz,n., A riddle or obscure question; an enigma; a ridiculous hoax.
Quob,v. i., To throb; to quiver.
Quod,n., A quadrangle or court, as of a prison; hence, a prison. 
Quop,v. i., See Quob.
Raca,a., A term of reproach used by the Jews of our Savior's time, meaning   worthless.   
Race,v. t., To raze.
Rach,n., Alt. of Rache
Rack,n., Same as Arrack.
Racy,superl., Having a strong flavor indicating origin; of distinct characteristic taste; tasting of the soil; hence, fresh; rich. 
Rade,n., A raid.
Raff,v. t., To sweep, snatch, draw, or huddle together; to take by a promiscuous sweep. 
Raft,, imp. & p. p. of Reave.
Rage,n., Violent excitement; eager passion; extreme vehemence of desire, emotion, or suffering, mastering the will. 
Raia,n., A genus of rays which includes the skates. See Skate.
Raid,n., A hostile or predatory incursion; an inroad or incursion of mounted men; a sudden and rapid invasion by a cavalry force; a foray.
Rail,n., An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women.
Rain,n. & v., Reign.
Raip,n., A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod. 
Rais,n., Same as 2d Reis.
Raja,n., Same as Rajah.
Rake,n., An implement consisting of a headpiece having teeth, and a long handle at right angles to it, -- used for collecting hay, or other light things which are spread over a large surface, or for breaking and smoothing the earth. 
Raku,, A kind of earthenware made in Japan, resembling Satsuma ware, but having a paler color. 
Rale,n., An adventitious sound, usually of morbid origin, accompanying the normal respiratory sounds. See Rhonchus. 
Ramp,v. i., To spring; to leap; to bound; to rear; to prance; to become rampant; hence, to frolic; to romp. 
Rami,pl. , of Ramus
Rana,n., A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs. 
Rand,n., A border; edge; margin.
Rang,, imp. of Ring, v. t. & i. 
Rani,n., A queen or princess; the wife of a rajah.
Rank,superl., Luxuriant in growth; of vigorous growth; exuberant; grown to immoderate height; as, rank grass; rank weeds. 
Rant,v. i., To rave in violent, high-sounding, or extravagant language, without dignity of thought; to be noisy, boisterous, and bombastic in talk or declamation; as, a ranting preacher. 
Ranz,, The name for numerous simple, but very irregular, melodies of the Swiss mountaineers, blown on a long tube called the Alpine horn, and sometimes sung. 
Rapt,, of Rap
Rape,n., Fruit, as grapes, plucked from the cluster. 
Rapt,, imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away. 
Rare,a., Early.
Rase,v. t., To rub along the surface of; to graze.
Rash,v. t., To pull off or pluck violently.
Rasp,v. t., To rub or file with a rasp; to rub or grate with a rough file; as, to rasp wood to make it smooth; to rasp bones to powder. 
Rata,n., A New Zealand forest tree (Metrosideros robusta
Rate,v. t. & i., To chide with vehemence; to scold; to censure violently.
Rath,n., A hill or mound.
Rave,, imp. of Rive.
Raze,n., A Shakespearean word (used once
Read,n., Rennet. See 3d Reed.
Reak,n., A rush.
Real,n., A small Spanish silver coin; also, a denomination of money of account, formerly the unit of the Spanish monetary system. 
Ream,n., Cream; also, the cream or froth on ale. 
Reap,v. t., To cut with a sickle, scythe, or reaping machine, as grain; to gather, as a harvest, by cutting. 
Rear,adv., Early; soon.
Reft,, of Reave
Raft,, of Reave
Reck,v. t., To make account of; to care for; to heed; to regard.
Rede,v. t., To advise or counsel.
Reed,a., Red.
Reef,n., A chain or range of rocks lying at or near the surface of the water. See Coral reefs, under Coral. 
Reek,n., A rick.
Reel,n., A lively dance of the Highlanders of Scotland; also, the music to the dance; -- often called Scotch reel. 
Reem,n., The Hebrew name of a horned wild animal, probably the Urus. 
Rove,imp. & p. p., of Reeve
Reft,imp. & p. p., Bereft.
Reis,pl. , of Rei
Reif,n., Robbery; spoil.
Reim,n., A strip of oxhide, deprived of hair, and rendered pliable, -- used for twisting into ropes, etc. 
Rein,n., The strap of a bridle, fastened to the curb or snaffle on each side, by which the rider or driver governs the horse. 
Reis,n., The word is used as a Portuguese designation of money of account, one hundred reis being about equal in value to eleven cents. 
Reit,n., Sedge; seaweed.
Rely,v. i., To rest with confidence, as when fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; -- with on, formerly also with in. 
Reme,n., Realm.
Rent,imp. & p. p., of Rend
Rend,v. t., To separate into parts with force or sudden violence; to tear asunder; to split; to burst; as, powder rends a rock in blasting; lightning rends an oak. 
Reng,n., A rank; a row.
Rent,v. i., To rant.
Rese,v. i., To shake; to quake; to tremble.
Rest,v. t., To arrest.
Rete,n., A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network. 
Reve,v. t., To reave.
Rewe,v. t. & i., To rue.
Reyn,n., Rain or rein.
Rhea,n., The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass. 
Rhob,n., See 1st Rob.
Rhus,n., A genus of shrubs and small treets. See Sumac.
Rial,n., A Spanish coin. See Real.
Rice,n., A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa
Rich,superl., Having an abundance of material possessions; possessed of a large amount of property; well supplied with land, goods, or money; wealthy; opulent; affluent; -- opposed to poor. 
Rick,n., A stack or pile, as of grain, straw, or hay, in the open air, usually protected from wet with thatching. 
Rode,imp., of Ride
Ride,v. i., To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse. 
Rief,n., Robbery.
Rife,a., Prevailing; prevalent; abounding.
Rift,, p. p. of Rive.
Riga,, A species of pine (Pinus sylvestris
Rile,v. t., To render turbid or muddy; to stir up; to roil.
Rill,n., A very small brook; a streamlet.
Rily,a., Roily.
Rima,n., A narrow and elongated aperture; a cleft; a fissure.
Rime,n., A rent or long aperture; a chink; a fissure; a crack.
Rimy,a., Abounding with rime; frosty.
Rind,n., The external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell. 
Rine,n., See Rind.
Rang,imp., of Ring
Rung,, of Ring
Ring,v. t., To cause to sound, especially by striking, as a metallic body; as, to ring a bell. 
Rink,n., The smooth and level extent of ice marked off for the game of curling.
Riot,n., Wanton or unrestrained behavior; uproar; tumult.
Ripe,n., The bank of a river.
Rose,imp., of Rise
Rise,v., To move from a lower position to a higher; to ascend; to mount up. Specifically: -- (a
Rish,n., A rush (the plant
Risk,n., Hazard; danger; peril; exposure to loss, injury, or destruction. 
Rist,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Rise, contracted from riseth. 
Rite,n., The act of performing divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept, or custom; a formal act of religion or other solemn duty; a solemn observance; a ceremony; as, the rites of freemasonry. 
Rive,v. t., To rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles. 
Road,n., A journey, or stage of a journey. 
Roam,v. i., To go from place to place without any certain purpose or direction; to rove; to wander.
Roan,a., Having a bay, chestnut, brown, or black color, with gray or white thickly interspersed; -- said of a horse. 
Roar,v. i., To cry with a full, loud, continued sound. 
Robe,v. t., An outer garment; a dress of a rich, flowing, and elegant style or make; hence, a dress of state, rank, office, or the like. 
Rock,n., See Roc.
Rode,n., Redness; complexion.
Rody,a., Ruddy.
Roed,a., Filled with roe.
Roil,v., To render turbid by stirring up the dregs or sediment of; as, to roil wine, cider, etc. , in casks or bottles; to roil a spring. 
Roin,v. t., See Royne.
Roke,n., Mist; smoke; damp
Roky,a., Misty; foggy; cloudy.
Role,n., A part, or character, performed by an actor in a drama; hence, a part of function taken or assumed by any one; as, he has now taken the role of philanthropist. 
Roll,n., To cause to revolve by turning over and over; to move by turning on an axis; to impel forward by causing to turn over and over on a supporting surface; as, to roll a wheel, a ball, or a barrel. 
Rome,, Alt. of Rome scot
Romp,v. i., To play rudely and boisterously; to leap and frisk about in play.
Rong,, imp. & p. p. of Ring.
Ront,n., A runt.
Rood,n., A representation in sculpture or in painting of the cross with Christ hanging on it.
Roof,n., The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing
Rook,n., Mist; fog. See Roke.
Room,n., Unobstructed spase; space which may be occupied by or devoted to any object; compass; extent of place, great or small; as, there is not room for a house; the table takes up too much room. 
Roon,a. & n., Vermilion red; red.
Roop,n., See Roup.
Root,v. i., To turn up the earth with the snout, as swine. 
Rope,n., A large, stout cord, usually one not less than an inch in circumference, made of strands twisted or braided together. It differs from cord, line, and string, only in its size. See Cordage. 
Ropy,a., capable of being drawn into a thread, as a glutinous substance; stringy; viscous; tenacious; glutinous; as ropy sirup; ropy lees. 
Rory,a., Dewy.
Rose,, imp. of Rise.
Ross,n., The rough, scaly matter on the surface of the bark of trees. 
Rost,n., See Roust.
Rosy,superl., Resembling a rose in color, form, or qualities; blooming; red; blushing; also, adorned with roses. 
Rota,n., An ecclesiastical court of Rome, called also Rota Romana, that takes cognizance of suits by appeal. It consists of twelve members. 
Rote,n., A root.
Roty,v. t., To make rotten.
Roue,n., One devoted to a life of sensual pleasure; a debauchee; a rake.
Rouk,v. i., See 5th Ruck, and Roke. 
Roun,v. i. & t., Alt. of Rown
Rown,v. i. & t., To whisper.
Roup,v. i. & t., To cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction. 
Rout,v. i., To roar; to bellow; to snort; to snore loudly.
Roux,n., A thickening, made of flour, for soups and gravies. 
Rove,v. t., To draw through an eye or aperture.
Rown,v. i. & t., see Roun.
Ruby,n., A precious stone of a carmine red color, sometimes verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine and hyacinth red. It is a red crystallized variety of corundum. 
Ruck,n., A roc.
Rudd,n., A fresh-water European fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus
Rude,superl., Characterized by roughness; umpolished; raw; lacking delicacy or refinement; coarse.
Rued,imp. & p. p., of Rue
Ruff,n., A game similar to whist, and the predecessor of it. 
Ruft,n., Eructation; belching.
Ruga,n., A wrinkle; a fold; as, the rugae of the stomach. 
Ruin,n., The act of falling or tumbling down; fall.
Rukh,n., The roc.
Rule,a., That which is prescribed or laid down as a guide for conduct or action; a governing direction for a specific purpose; an authoritative enactment; a regulation; a prescription; a precept; as, the rules of various societies; the rules governing a school; a rule of etiquette or propriety; the rules of cricket. 
Ruly,a., Orderly; easily restrained; -- opposed to unruly.
Rump,n., The end of the backbone of an animal, with the parts adjacent; the buttock or buttocks. 
Rune,n., A letter, or character, belonging to the written language of the ancient Norsemen, or Scandinavians; in a wider sense, applied to the letters of the ancient nations of Northern Europe in general. 
Rung,, imp. & p. p. of Ring.
Runt,a., Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particularly to domestic animals. 
ties,pl. , of Rurality
Ruse,n., An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraud; deceit.
Rush,n., A name given to many aquatic or marsh-growing endogenous plants with soft, slender stems, as the species of Juncus and Scirpus. 
Rusk,n., A kind of light, soft bread made with yeast and eggs, often toasted or crisped in an oven; or, a kind of sweetened biscuit. 
Russ,n. sing. & pl., A Russian, or the Russians. 
Rust,n., The reddish yellow coating formed on iron when exposed to moist air, consisting of ferric oxide or hydroxide; hence, by extension, any metallic film of corrosion. 
Ruth,v., Sorrow for the misery of another; pity; tenderness.
Ryal,a., Royal.
Rynd,n., A piece of iron crossing the hole in the upper millstone by which the stone is supported on the spindle.
Ryot,n., A peasant or cultivator of the soil.
Rysh,n., Rush, a plant. 
Ryth,n., A ford.
Saan,n. pl., Same as Bushmen.
Sack,n., A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines.
Sacs,n. pl., A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
Sadh,n., A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects.
Sadr,n., A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus
Safe,superl., Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes. 
Saga,n., A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time. 
Sage,n., A suffruticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis
Sago,n., A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, etc.
Saga,pl. , of Sagum
Sagy,a., Full of sage; seasoned with sage.
Saic,n., A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail. 
Said,, imp. & p. p. of Say.
Sail,n., An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.
Saim,n., Lard; grease.
Sain,p. p., Said.
Sake,n., Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake of, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health. 
Saki,n., Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile. 
Sale,n., See 1st Sallow.
Salm,n., Psalm.
Salp,n., Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidae. 
Salt,n., The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles. 
Same,v. i., Not different or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged.
Samp,n., An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy. 
Sand,n., Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet. 
Sane,a., Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; -- said of the mind.
Sang,, imp. of Sing.
Sank,, imp. of Sink.
Sans,prep., Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word.
Sard,n., A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish red color. See the Note under Chalcedony. 
Sari,n., Same as Saree.
Sark,n., A shirt.
Sarn,n., A pavement or stepping-stone.
Sart,n., An assart, or clearing. 
Sash,n., A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers, members of societies, etc. 
Sate,v. t., To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to surfeit.
Sauf,a., Safe.
Sauh,, imp. sing. of See.
Saul,n., Soul.
Saur,n., Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse.
Saut,n., Alt. of Saute
Save,n., The herb sage, or salvia. 
Sawn,, of Saw
Said,imp. & p. p., of Say
Scab,n., An incrustation over a sore, wound, vesicle, or pustule, formed by the drying up of the discharge from the diseased part. 
Scad,n., A small carangoid fish (Trachurus saurus
Scan,v. t., To mount by steps; to go through with step by step.
Scar,n., A mark in the skin or flesh of an animal, made by a wound or ulcer, and remaining after the wound or ulcer is healed; a cicatrix; a mark left by a previous injury; a blemish; a disfigurement. 
Scat,interj., Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat.
Scot,n., A name for a horse.
Scow,n., A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends. 
Scry,v. t., To descry.
Scud,v. i., To move swiftly; especially, to move as if driven forward by something. 
Scug,v. i., To hide.
Scum,v., The extraneous matter or impurities which rise to the surface of liquids in boiling or fermentation, or which form on the surface by other means; also, the scoria of metals in a molten state; dross. 
Scup,n., A swing.
Scur,v. i., To move hastily; to scour.
Scut,n., The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself. 
Scye,n., Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the armhole of the waist of a garnment. 
Sdan,v. & n., Disdain.
Seah,n., A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah.
Seak,n., Soap prepared for use in milling cloth.
Seal,n., Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidae and Otariidae.
Seam,n., Grease; tallow; lard.
Sean,n., A seine. See Seine.
Sear,a., Alt. of Sere
Sere,a., [OE. seer, AS. sear (assumed
Sear,a., To wither; to dry up.
Seat,n., The place or thing upon which one sits; hence; anything made to be sat in or upon, as a chair, bench, stool, saddle, or the like. 
Seck,a., Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent. 
Sect,n., A cutting; a scion.
Seen,p. p., of See
Seed,pl. , of Seed
Seek,a., Sick.
Seel,v. t., To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird
Seem,a., To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as. 
Seen,, p. p. of See.
Seep,v. i., Alt. of Sipe
Sipe,v. i., To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
Sipy,a., Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well drained.
Seer,a., Sore; painful.
Seet,imp., Sate; sat.
Sego,n., A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii
Seid,n., A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew Ali.
Seke,a., Sick.
Seld,a., Rare; uncommon; unusual.
Self,a., Same; particular; very; identical.
Sell,n., Self.
Sold,imp. & p. p., of Sell
Sell,v. t., To transfer to another for an equivalent; to give up for a valuable consideration; to dispose of in return for something, especially for money. 
Sely,a., Silly.
Seme,a., Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed or covered with small charges. 
Semi,n., Half of a circumference.
Sent,imp. & p. p., of Send
Send,v. t., To cause to go in any manner; to dispatch; to commission or direct to go; as, to send a messenger. 
Sens,adv., Since.
Sent,v. & n., See Scent, v. & n. 
Sept,n., A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor; -- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland. 
Sere,a., Dry; withered. Same as Sear.
Serf,v. t., A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia. 
Serr,v. t., To crowd, press, or drive together. 
Sess,v. t., To lay a tax upon; to assess.
Seta,n., Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss. 
Sett,n., See Set, n., 2 (e
Sewn,, of Sew
Sewe,v. i., To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer.
Sext,n., The office for the sixth canonical hour, being a part of the Breviary. 
Seyh,, imp. sing. & 2d pers. pl. of See.
Seye,, Alt. of Seyen
Shab,n., The itch in animals; also, a scab. 
Shad,n. sing. & pl., Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima
Shag,n., Coarse hair or nap; rough, woolly hair. 
Shah,n., The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia. 
Sham,n., That which deceives expectation; any trick, fraud, or device that deludes and disappoint; a make-believe; delusion; imposture, humbug. 
Shaw,n., A thicket; a small wood or grove.
Shay,n., A chaise.
Shea,, An African sapotaceous tree (Bassia, / Butyrospermum, Parkii
Shed,n., A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut; as, a wagon shed; a wood shed. 
Shet,imp., of Shet
Shew,v. t. & i., See Show.
Shie,v. t., See Shy, to throw. 
Shim,n., A kind of shallow plow used in tillage to break the ground, and clear it of weeds. 
Shin,n., The front part of the leg below the knee; the front edge of the shin bone; the lower part of the leg; the shank.
Ship,n., Pay; reward.
Shod,imp. & p. p., f Shoe.
Shoe,n., A covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top. It differs from a boot on not extending so far up the leg. 
Shod,imp. & p. p., of Shoe
Shoe,n., To furnish with a shoe or shoes; to put a shoe or shoes on; as, to shoe a horse, a sled, an anchor. 
Shog,n., A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse.
Shoo,interj., Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away animals, especially fowls. 
Shot,imp. & p. p., of Shoot
Shop,, imp. of Shape. Shaped.
Shot,, imp. & p. p. of Shoot.
Show,v. t., To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show a house; show your colors; shopkeepers show customers goods (show goods to customers
Shug,v. i., To writhe the body so as to produce friction against one's clothes, as do those who have the itch. 
Shun,v. t., To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice. 
Shut,imp. & p. p., of Shut
Sice,n., The number six at dice.
Sich,a., Such.
Sick,superl., Affected with disease of any kind; ill; indisposed; not in health. See the Synonym under Illness.
Sida,n., A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics. All the species are mucilaginous, and some have tough ligneous fibers which are used as a substitute for hemp and flax. 
Side,n., The margin, edge, verge, or border of a surface; especially (when the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape
Sift,v. t., To separate with a sieve, as the fine part of a substance from the coarse; as, to sift meal or flour; to sift powder; to sift sand or lime. 
Sigh,v. i., To inhale a larger quantity of air than usual, and immediately expel it; to make a deep single audible respiration, especially as the result or involuntary expression of fatigue, exhaustion, grief, sorrow, or the like. 
Sign,n., That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof.
Sike,a., Such. See Such.
Sile,v. t., To strain, as fresh milk. 
Silk,n., The fine, soft thread produced by various species of caterpillars in forming the cocoons within which the worm is inclosed during the pupa state, especially that produced by the larvae of Bombyx mori. 
Sill,n., The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a loom, and the like. 
Silo,n., A pit or vat for packing away green fodder for winter use so as to exclude air and outside moisture. See Ensilage.
Silt,n., Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water.
Sima,n., A cyma.
Sine,n., The length of a perpendicular drawn from one extremity of an arc of a circle to the diameter drawn through the other extremity.
Sung,imp., of Sing
Sang,, of Sing
Sung,p. p., of Sing
Sing,v. i., To utter sounds with musical inflections or melodious modulations of voice, as fancy may dictate, or according to the notes of a song or tune, or of a given part (as alto, tenor, etc.
Sunk,imp., of Sink
Sank,, of Sink
Sunk,p. p., of Sink
Sink,v. i., To fall by, or as by, the force of gravity; to descend lower and lower; to decline gradually; to subside; as, a stone sinks in water; waves rise and sink; the sun sinks in the west. 
Sire,n., A lord, master, or other person in authority. See Sir. 
Sirt,n., A quicksand.
Sise,n., An assize.
Siss,v. i., To make a hissing sound; as, a flatiron hot enough to siss when touched with a wet finger. 
Sist,v. t., To stay, as judicial proceedings; to delay or suspend; to stop. 
Sate,, of Sit
Site,n., The place where anything is fixed; situation; local position; as, the site of a city or of a house. 
Sith,prep., adv., & conj., Since; afterwards; seeing that. 
Sitz,, A tub in which one bathes in a sitting posture; also, a bath so taken; a hip bath. 
Siva,n., One of the triad of Hindoo gods. He is the avenger or destroyer, and in modern worship symbolizes the reproductive power of nature. 
Size,n., Six.
Sizy,a., Sizelike; viscous; glutinous; as, sizy blood. 
Skag,n., An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent lateral motion. See Skeg.
Skar,a., Alt. of Skare
Skee,n., A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the foot for sliding. 
Skeg,n., A sort of wild plum.
Sken,v. i., To squint.
Skep,n., A coarse round farm basket.
Skew,adv., Awry; obliquely; askew.
Skid,n., A shoe or clog, as of iron, attached to a chain, and placed under the wheel of a wagon to prevent its turning when descending a steep hill; a drag; a skidpan; also, by extension, a hook attached to a chain, and used for the same purpose. 
Skim,v. t., To clear (a liquid
Skin,n., The external membranous integument of an animal.
Skip,n., A basket. See Skep.
Skit,v. t., To cast reflections on; to asperse.
Skua,n., Any jager gull; especially, the Megalestris skua; -- called also boatswain. 
Skue,a. & n., See Skew.
Skun,n. & v., See Scum.
Skye,, See Terrier.
Slab,n., A thin piece of anything, especially of marble or other stone, having plane surfaces. 
Slag,v. t., The dross, or recrement, of a metal; also, vitrified cinders. 
Slam,v. t., To shut with force and a loud noise; to bang; as, he slammed the door. 
Slap,n., A blow, esp. one given with the open hand, or with something broad. 
Slat,n., A thin, narrow strip or bar of wood or metal; as, the slats of a window blind. 
Slav,n., One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc. 
Slaw,n., Sliced cabbage served as a salad, cooked or uncooked. 
Slew,imp., of Slay
Slay,v. t., To put to death with a weapon, or by violence; hence, to kill; to put an end to; to destroy. 
Sled,n., A vehicle on runners, used for conveying loads over the snow or ice; -- in England called sledge. 
Slee,v. t., To slay.
Slep,, imp. of Sleep. Slept.
Slew,, imp. of Slay.
Sley,v. t., A weaver's reed.
Slid,, imp. & p. p. of Slide.
Slik,a., Such.
Slim,superl., Worthless; bad.
Slip,n., To move along the surface of a thing without bounding, rolling, or stepping; to slide; to glide. 
Slit,, 3d. pers. sing. pres. of Slide.
Sloe,n., A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of the blackthorn (Prunus spinosa
Sloo,n., Alt. of Slue
Slue,n., A slough; a run or wet place. See 2d Slough, 2. 
Slop,n., Water or other liquid carelessly spilled or thrown aboyt, as upon a table or a floor; a puddle; a soiled spot. 
Slot,n., A broad, flat, wooden bar; a slat or sloat. 
Slow,, imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. 
Slub,n., A roll of wool slightly twisted; a rove; -- called also slubbing.
Slue,v. t., To turn about a fixed point, usually the center or axis, as a spar or piece of timber; to turn; -- used also of any heavy body. 
Slug,n., A drone; a slow, lazy fellow; a sluggard. 
Slum,n., A foul back street of a city, especially one filled with a poor, dirty, degraded, and often vicious population; any low neighborhood or dark retreat; -- usually in the plural; as, Westminster slums are haunts for theives. 
Slur,v. t., To soil; to sully; to contaminate; to disgrace.
Slut,n., An untidy woman; a slattern.
Smee,n., The pintail duck.
Smew,n., small European merganser (Mergus albellus
Smit,, imp. & p. p. of Smite.
Smug,a., Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce; affectedly precise; smooth and prim. 
Smut,v. t., Foul matter, like soot or coal dust; also, a spot or soil made by such matter. 
Snag,n., A stump or base of a branch that has been lopped off; a short branch, or a sharp or rough branch; a knot; a protuberance. 
Snap,n., To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle. 
Snar,v. i., To snarl.
Snaw,n., Snow.
Sneb,v. t., To reprimand; to sneap.
Sned,v. t., To lop; to snathe.
Snet,n., The fat of a deer.
Snew,v. i., To snow; to abound.
Snib,v. t., To check; to sneap; to sneb.
Snig,v. t., To chop off; to cut.
Snip,v. t., To cut off the nip or neb of, or to cut off at once with shears or scissors; to clip off suddenly; to nip; hence, to break off; to snatch away. 
Snob,n., A vulgar person who affects to be better, richer, or more fashionable, than he really is; a vulgar upstart; one who apes his superiors. 
Snod,n., A fillet; a headband; a snood.
Snot,n., Mucus secreted in, or discharged from, the nose. 
Snow,n., A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail is hoisted. 
Snub,v. i., To sob with convulsions.
Snug,superl., Close and warm; as, an infant lies snug. 
Soak,v. t., To cause or suffer to lie in a fluid till the substance has imbibed what it can contain; to macerate in water or other liquid; to steep, as for the purpose of softening or freshening; as, to soak cloth; to soak bread; to soak salt meat, salt fish, or the like. 
Soal,n., The sole of a shoe.
Soam,n., A chain by which a leading horse draws a plow.
Soap,n., A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent. Soap is produced by combining fats or oils with alkalies or alkaline earths, usually by boiling, and consists of salts of sodium, potassium, etc., with the fatty acids (oleic, stearic, palmitic, etc.
Soar,v. i., To fly aloft, as a bird; to mount upward on wings, or as on wings. 
Sock,n., A plowshare.
Soda,n., Sodium oxide or hydroxide.
Sofa,n., A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; -- much used as a comfortable piece of furniture. 
Sofi,n., Same as Sufi.
Soft,superl., Easily yielding to pressure; easily impressed, molded, or cut; not firm in resisting; impressible; yielding; also, malleable; -- opposed to hard; as, a soft bed; a soft peach; soft earth; soft wood or metal. 
Soho,interj., Ho; -- a word used in calling from a distant place; a sportsman's halloo.
Soil,v. t., To feed, as cattle or horses, in the barn or an inclosure, with fresh grass or green food cut for them, instead of sending them out to pasture; hence (such food having the effect of purging them
Soja,n., An Asiatic leguminous herb (Glycine Soja
Soke,n., See Soc.
Soko,n., An African anthropoid ape, supposed to be a variety of the chimpanzee. 
Sola,a., See Solus.
Sold,, imp. & p. p. of Sell.
Sole,n., Any one of several species of flatfishes of the genus Solea and allied genera of the family Soleidae, especially the common European species (Solea vulgaris
Soli,n., pl. of Solo.
Solo,a., A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice. 
Sola,fem. a., Alone; -- chiefly used in stage directions, and the like. 
Soly,adv., Solely.
Soma,n., The whole axial portion of an animal, including the head, neck, trunk, and tail. 
Some,a., Consisting of a greater or less portion or sum; composed of a quantity or number which is not stated; -- used to express an indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some persons. Used also pronominally; as, I have some. 
Sond,v. t., Alt. of Sonde
Song,n., That which is sung or uttered with musical modulations of the voice, whether of a human being or of a bird, insect, etc. 
Soon,adv., In a short time; shortly after any time specified or supposed; as, soon after sunrise. 
Soot,n., A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuel in the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, and adheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke; strictly, the fine powder, consisting chiefly of carbon, which colors smoke, and which is the result of imperfect combustion. See Smoke. 
Sope,n., See Soap.
Soph,n., A contraction of Soph ister.
Sora,n., A North American rail (Porzana Carolina
Sorb,n., The wild service tree (Pyrus torminalis
Sord,n., See Sward.
Sore,n., Reddish brown; sorrel.
Sori,n., pl. of Sorus.
Sorn,v. i., To obtrude one's self on another for bed and board.
Sors,n., A lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots. 
Sort,n., Chance; lot; destiny.
Sori,pl. , of Sorus
Sory,n., Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it. 
Soss,v. i., To fall at once into a chair or seat; to sit lazily.
Sote,a., Sweet.
Sous,pl. , of Sou
Soul,a., Sole.
Soun,n. & v., Sound.
Soup,n., A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or flavored; strong broth. 
Sour,superl., Having an acid or sharp, biting taste, like vinegar, and the juices of most unripe fruits; acid; tart. 
Sous,n., Alt. of Souse
Sout,n., Soot.
Sown,p. p., of Sow
Sowl,v. t., Alt. of Sowle
Sown,, p. p. of Sow.
Spae,v. i., To foretell; to divine.
Span,, imp. & p. p. of Spin.
Spar,n., An old name for a nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar, or calcite, fluor spar, etc. It was especially used in the case of the gangue minerals of a metalliferous vein. 
Spat,, imp. of Spit.
Spaw,n., See Spa.
Spay,v. t., To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to castrate (a female animal
Sped,, imp. & p. p. of Speed.
Sper,v. t., Alt. of Sperre
Spet,v. t., To spit; to throw out.
Spew,v. t., To eject from the stomach; to vomit.
Spun,imp. & p. p., of Spin
Span,imp., of Spin
Spin,v. t., To draw out, and twist into threads, either by the hand or machinery; as, to spin wool, cotton, or flax; to spin goat's hair; to produce by drawing out and twisting a fibrous material. 
Spit,n., A long, slender, pointed rod, usually of iron, for holding meat while roasting. 
Spat,, of Spit
Spit,n., To eject from the mouth; to throw out, as saliva or other matter, from the mouth. 
Spot,n., A mark on a substance or body made by foreign matter; a blot; a place discolored.
Spry,superl., Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active.
Spud,n., A sharp, narrow spade, usually with a long handle, used by farmers for digging up large-rooted weeds; a similarly shaped implement used for various purposes. 
Spue,v. t. & i., See Spew.
Spun,, imp. & p. p. of Spin.
Spur,n., A sparrow.
Sput,n., An annular reenforce, to strengthen a place where a hole is made. 
Stab,v. t., To pierce with a pointed weapon; to wound or kill by the thrust of a pointed instrument; as, to stab a man with a dagger; also, to thrust; as, to stab a dagger into a person. 
Stag,n., The adult male of the red deer (Cervus elaphus
Stal,imp., Stole.
Star,n., One of the innumerable luminous bodies seen in the heavens; any heavenly body other than the sun, moon, comets, and nebulae. 
Staw,v. i., To be fixed or set; to stay.
Stay,n., A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays. See Illust. of Ship. 
Sted,adv., Alt. of Stedfastly
Stee,n., A ladder.
Steg,n., A gander.
Stem,v. i., Alt. of Steem
Step,a., To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both feet in succession. 
Stet,subj. 3d pers. sing., Let it stand; -- a word used by proof readers to signify that something once erased, or marked for omission, is to remain. 
Stew,n., A small pond or pool where fish are kept for the table; a vivarium.
Stey,n., See Stee.
Stir,v. t., To change the place of in any manner; to move.
Stor,a., Strong; powerful; hardy; bold; audacious.
Stop,v. t., To close, as an aperture, by filling or by obstructing; as, to stop the ears; hence, to stanch, as a wound. 
Stor,a., See Stoor.
Stot,n., A horse.
Stow,v. t., To place or arrange in a compact mass; to put in its proper place, or in a suitable place; to pack; as, to stowbags, bales, or casks in a ship's hold; to stow hay in a mow; to stow sheaves. 
Stre,n., Straw.
Stub,n., The stump of a tree; that part of a tree or plant which remains fixed in the earth when the stem is cut down; -- applied especially to the stump of a small tree, or shrub. 
Stud,n., A collection of breeding horses and mares, or the place where they are kept; also, a number of horses kept for a racing, riding, etc. 
Stum,n., Unfermented grape juice or wine, often used to raise fermentation in dead or vapid wines; must. 
Stun,v. t., To make senseless or dizzy by violence; to render senseless by a blow, as on the head. 
Stut,v. i., To stutter.
Stye,n., See Sty, a boil. 
Styx,n., The principal river of the lower world, which had to be crossed in passing to the regions of the dead. 
Such,a., Of that kind; of the like kind; like; resembling; similar; as, we never saw such a day; -- followed by that or as introducing the word or proposition which defines the similarity, or the standard of comparison; as, the books are not such that I can recommend them, or, not such as I can recommend; these apples are not such as those we saw yesterday; give your children such precepts as tend to make them better. 
Suck,v. t., To draw, as a liquid, by the action of the mouth and tongue, which tends to produce a vacuum, and causes the liquid to rush in by atmospheric pressure; to draw, or apply force to, by exhausting the air. 
Suds,n. pl., Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles and froth. 
Sued,imp. & p. p., of Sue
Suer,n., One who sues; a suitor.
Suet,n., The fat and fatty tissues of an animal, especially the harder fat about the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton, which, when melted and freed from the membranes, forms tallow. 
Sufi,n., A title or surname of the king of Persia.
Suit,n., The act of following or pursuing, as game; pursuit. 
Suji,n., Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of semolina. 
Sula,n., A genus of sea birds including the booby and the common gannet.
Sulk,n., A furrow.
Sull,n., A plow.
Sump,n., A round pit of stone, lined with clay, for receiving the metal on its first fusion. 
Sung,, imp. & p. p. of Sing.
Sunk,, imp. & p. p. of Sink.
Sunn,n., An East Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea
Supe,n., A super.
Sura,n., One of the sections or chapters of the Koran, which are one hundred and fourteen in number. 
Surd,a., Net having the sense of hearing; deaf.
Sure,superl., Certainly knowing and believing; confident beyond doubt; implicity trusting; unquestioning; positive.
Surf,n., The swell of the sea which breaks upon the shore, esp. upon a sloping beach. 
Susu,n., See Soosoo.
Swab,n., To clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship. 
Swad,n., A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease. 
Swag,v. i., To hang or move, as something loose and heavy; to sway; to swing. 
Swal,imp., Swelled.
Swam,, imp. of Swim.
Swan,n., Any one of numerous species of large aquatic birds belonging to Cygnus, Olor, and allied genera of the subfamily Cygninae. They have a large and strong beak and a long neck, and are noted for their graceful movements when swimming. Most of the northern species are white. In literature the swan was fabled to sing a melodious song, especially at the time of its death. 
Swap,v. i., To strike; -- with off.
Swat,, imp. of Sweat.
Sway,v. i., To move or wield with the hand; to swing; to wield; as, to sway the scepter. 
Swat,, of Sweat
Swig,v. t., To drink in long draughts; to gulp; as, to swig cider. 
Swam,imp., of Swim
Swum,, of Swim
Swim,v. i., To be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float; as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that of the fluid in which it is immersed. 
Swob,n. & v., See Swab.
Swom,, imp. of Swim.
Swop,v. & n., Same as Swap.
Swum,, imp. & p. p. of Swim.
Syce,n., A groom.
Syke,n. & v., See Sike.
Syle,n., A young herring (Clupea harengus
Syne,adv., Afterwards; since; ago.
Syrt,n., A quicksand; a bog.
Syth,prep., adv., conj. & n., Alt. of Sythe 
Taas,n., A heap. See Tas.
Tabu,n. & v., See Taboo.
Tace,n., The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6
Tack,n., A stain; a tache.
Tact,n., The sense of touch; feeling.
Tael,n., A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third. 
Taen,, Alt. of Ta'en
Taha,n., The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor
Tahr,n., Same as Thar.
Tail,n., Limitation; abridgment.
Tain,n., Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors. 
Tait,n., A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes rostratus
Take,p. p., Taken.
Took,imp., of Take
Take,v. t., In an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to procure; to seize and carry away; to convey. 
Talc,n., A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular variety. 
Tale,n., See Tael.
Talk,n., To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts. 
Tall,superl., High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast. 
Tali,pl. , of Talus
Tame,v. t., To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to distribute; to deal out. 
Tamp,v. t., In blasting, to plug up with clay, earth, dry sand, sod, or other material, as a hole bored in a rock, in order to prevent the force of the explosion from being misdirected. 
Tana,n., Same as Banxring.
Tang,n., A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus
Tank,n., A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls. 
Tant,n., A small scarlet arachnid.
Tapa,n., A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.
Tape,n., A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape. 
Tare,imp., Tore.
Tarn,n., A mountain lake or pool.
Taro,n., A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.
Tart,v. t., Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple. 
Task,v., Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or amount. 
Tath,obs., 3d pers. sing. pres. of Ta, to take. 
Tatt,v. t. & i., To make (anything
Tatu,n., Same as Tatou.
Taur,n., The constellation Taurus.
Taut,a., Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained.
Taws,n., A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a schoolmaster. 
Tead,n., Alt. of Teade
Teak,n., A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis
Teal,n., Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the wings. 
Team,n., A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a litter. 
Tear,n., A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids. 
Tore,imp., of Tear
Tare,, of Tear
Torn,p. p., of Tear
Tear,v. t., To separate by violence; to pull apart by force; to rend; to lacerate; as, to tear cloth; to tear a garment; to tear the skin or flesh. 
Teat,n., The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the udder or breast of a mammal; a nipple; a pap; a mammilla; a dug; a tit.
Teek,n., See Teak.
Teel,n., Sesame.
Teem,v. t., To pour; -- commonly followed by out; as, to teem out ale. 
Teen,n., Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain.
Teil,n., The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree. 
Told,imp. & p. p., of Tell
Tell,v. t., To mention one by one, or piece by piece; to recount; to enumerate; to reckon; to number; to count; as, to tell money. 
Tend,v. t., To make a tender of; to offer or tender.
Tene,n. & v., See 1st and 2d Teen.
Tent,n., A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta. 
Term,n., That which limits the extent of anything; limit; extremity; bound; boundary.
Tern,n., Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds, allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied genera. 
Test,n., A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement.
Tete,n., A kind of wig; false hair.
Teuk,n., The redshank.
Text,n., A discourse or composition on which a note or commentary is written; the original words of an author, in distinction from a paraphrase, annotation, or commentary. 
Thak,v. t., To thwack.
Than,conj., A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. 
Thar,n., A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica
That,pron., a., conj., & adv., As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those
Thaw,v. i., To melt, dissolve, or become fluid; to soften; -- said of that which is frozen; as, the ice thaws. 
Thea,n., A genus of plants found in China and Japan; the tea plant.
Thee,a., To thrive; to prosper.
Them,pron., The objective case of they. See They.
Then,adv., At that time (referring to a time specified, either past or future
Thew,n., Manner; custom; habit; form of behavior; qualities of mind; disposition; specifically, good qualities; virtues. 
They,obj., The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. 
Thin,superl., Having little thickness or extent from one surface to its opposite; as, a thin plate of metal; thin paper; a thin board; a thin covering. 
This,pron. & a., As a demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned. 
Thor,n., The god of thunder, and son of Odin. 
Thou,obj., The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style. 
Thru,prep., adv. & a., Through. 
Thud,n., A dull sound without resonance, like that produced by striking with, or striking against, some comparatively soft substance; also, the stroke or blow producing such sound; as, the thrud of a cannon ball striking the earth. 
Thug,n., One of an association of robbers and murderers in India who practiced murder by stealthy approaches, and from religious motives. They have been nearly exterminated by the British government. 
Thus,n., The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers. 
Tiar,n., A tiara.
Tice,v. t., To entice.
Tick,n., Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick. 
Tide,prep., Time; period; season.
Tidy,n., The wren; -- called also tiddy.
Ties,pl. , of Tie
Tied,imp. & p. p., of Tie
Tier,n., One who, or that which, ties. 
Tiff,n., Liquor; especially, a small draught of liquor. 
Tift,n., A fit of pettishness, or slight anger; a tiff. 
Tigh,n., A close, or inclosure; a croft. 
Tike,n., A tick. See 2d Tick.
Tile,v. t., To protect from the intrusion of the uninitiated; as, to tile a Masonic lodge. 
Till,n., A vetch; a tare.
Tilt,n., A covering overhead; especially, a tent. 
Time,n., Duration, considered independently of any system of measurement or any employment of terms which designate limited portions thereof. 
Tind,v. t., To kindle.
Tine,n., Trouble; distress; teen.
Ting,n., A sharp sound, as of a bell; a tinkling. 
Tink,v. i., To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle. 
Tint,n., A slight coloring.
Tiny,superl., Very small; little; puny.
Tire,n., A tier, row, or rank. See Tier. 
Tiro,n., Same as Tyro.
Tith,a., Tight; nimble.
Titi,n., Same as Teetee.
Tivy,adv., With great speed; -- a huntsman's word or sound.
Tiza,n., See Ulexite.
Toad,n., Any one of numerous species of batrachians belonging to the genus Bufo and allied genera, especially those of the family Bufonidae. Toads are generally terrestrial in their habits except during the breeding season, when they seek the water. Most of the species burrow beneath the earth in the daytime and come forth to feed on insects at night. Most toads have a rough, warty skin in which are glands that secrete an acrid fluid. 
Toat,n., The handle of a joiner's plane.
Toco,n., A toucan (Ramphastos toco
Tody,n., Any one of several species of small insectivorous West Indian birds of the genus Todus. They are allied to the kingfishers.
Toed,imp. & p. p., of Toe
Toft,n., A knoll or hill.
Toga,n., The loose outer garment worn by the ancient Romans, consisting of a single broad piece of woolen cloth of a shape approaching a semicircle. It was of undyed wool, except the border of the toga praetexta. 
Toil,n., A net or snare; any thread, web, or string spread for taking prey; -- usually in the plural. 
Tola,n., A weight of British India. The standard tola is equal to 180 grains.
Told,, imp. & p. p. of Tell.
Tole,v. t., To draw, or cause to follow, by displaying something pleasing or desirable; to allure by some bait. 
Toll,v. t., To take away; to vacate; to annul.
Tolt,n., A writ by which a cause pending in a court baron was removed into a country court.
Tolu,n., A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiago de Tolu, in New Granada. See Balsam of Tolu, under Balsam. 
Tomb,n., A pit in which the dead body of a human being is deposited; a grave; a sepulcher.
Tome,n., As many writings as are bound in a volume, forming part of a larger work; a book; -- usually applied to a ponderous volume. 
Tone,n., Sound, or the character of a sound, or a sound considered as of this or that character; as, a low, high, loud, grave, acute, sweet, or harsh tone. 
Tong,n., Alt. of Tonge
Tony,n., A simpleton.
Took,, imp. of Take.
Tool,n., An instrument such as a hammer, saw, plane, file, and the like, used in the manual arts, to facilitate mechanical operations; any instrument used by a craftsman or laborer at his work; an implement; as, the tools of a joiner, smith, shoe-maker, etc.; also, a cutter, chisel, or other part of an instrument or machine that dresses work. 
Toom,a., Empty.
Toon,, pl. of Toe.
Toot,v. i., To stand out, or be prominent. 
Tope,n., A moundlike Buddhist sepulcher, or memorial monument, often erected over a Buddhist relic. 
Toph,n., kind of sandstone.
Torc,n., Same as Torque, 1. 
Tore,, imp. of Tear.
Torn,, p. p. of Tear.
Tort,n., Mischief; injury; calamity.
Tori,pl. , of Torus
Tory,n., A member of the conservative party, as opposed to the progressive party which was formerly called the Whig, and is now called the Liberal, party; an earnest supporter of exsisting royal and ecclesiastical authority. 
Tose,v. t., To tease, or comb, as wool. 
Tosh,a., Neat; trim.
Tost,, of Toss
Toss,v. t., To throw with the hand; especially, to throw with the palm of the hand upward, or to throw upward; as, to toss a ball. 
Tost,, imp. & p. p. of Toss.
Tota,n., The grivet.
Tote,v. t., To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes. 
Toty,a., Totty.
Tour,n., A tower.
Tout,v. i., To act as a tout. See 2d Tout.
Town,adv. & prep., Formerly: (a
Towy,a., Composed of, or like, tow. 
Toze,v. t., To pull violently; to touse.
Tozy,a., Soft, like wool that has been teased. 
Trad,, imp. of Tread.
Tram,n., A four-wheeled truck running on rails, and used in a mine, as for carrying coal or ore. 
Trap,v. t., To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses.
Tray,v. t., To betray; to deceive.
Trod,imp., of Tread
Tree,n., Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high
Tren,n., A fish spear.
Tret,, 3d pers. sing. pres. of Tread, for treadeth. 
Trew,a., Alt. of Trewe
Trey,n., Three, at cards, dice, or dominoes; a card, die, or domino of three spots or pips. 
Trig,v. t., To fill; to stuff; to cram.
Trim,v. t., To make trim; to put in due order for any purpose; to make right, neat, or pleasing; to adjust. 
Trio,n., Three, considered collectively; three in company or acting together; a set of three; three united. 
Trip,n. i., To move with light, quick steps; to walk or move lightly; to skip; to move the feet nimbly; -- sometimes followed by it. See It, 5. 
Trod,, imp. & p. p. of Tread.
Tron,n., See 3d Trone, 2. 
Trot,v. i., To proceed by a certain gait peculiar to quadrupeds; to ride or drive at a trot. See Trot, n. 
Trow,n., A boat with an open well amidships. It is used in spearing fish.
Troy,n., Troy weight.
Trub,n., A truffle.
True,n., Conformable to fact; in accordance with the actual state of things; correct; not false, erroneous, inaccurate, or the like; as, a true relation or narration; a true history; a declaration is true when it states the facts. 
Trug,n., A trough, or tray. 
Tsar,n., The title of the emperor of Russia. See Czar.
Tuba,n., An ancient trumpet.
Tube,n., A hollow cylinder, of any material, used for the conveyance of fluids, and for various other purposes; a pipe. 
Tuch,n., A dark-colored kind of marble; touchstone.
Tuck,n., A long, narrow sword; a rapier. 
Tuet,n., The lapwing.
Tufa,, A soft or porous stone formed by depositions from water, usually calcareous; -- called also calcareous tufa. 
Tuff,n., Same as Tufa.
Tuft,n., A collection of small, flexible, or soft things in a knot or bunch; a waving or bending and spreading cluster; as, a tuft of flowers or feathers. 
Tula,, An alloy of silver, copper, and lead made at Tula in Russia. 
Tule,n., A large bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, and S. Tatora
Tull,v. t., To allure; to tole.
Tump,n., A little hillock; a knoll.
Tuna,n., The Opuntia Tuna. See Prickly pear, under Prickly. 
Tune,n., A sound; a note; a tone.
Tunk,n., A sharp blow; a thump.
Turf,n., That upper stratum of earth and vegetable mold which is filled with the roots of grass and other small plants, so as to adhere and form a kind of mat; sward; sod. 
Turk,n., A member of any of numerous Tartar tribes of Central Asia, etc.; esp., one of the dominant race in Turkey. 
Turm,n., A troop; a company.
Turn,v. t., To cause to move upon a center, or as if upon a center; to give circular motion to; to cause to revolve; to cause to move round, either partially, wholly, or repeatedly; to make to change position so as to present other sides in given directions; to make to face otherwise; as, to turn a wheel or a spindle; to turn the body or the head. 
Tush,interj., An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush, tush! do not speak of it. 
Tusk,n., Same as Torsk.
Tuza,n., The tucan.
Tway,a. & n., Two; twain.
Twey,a., Two.
Twig,v. t., To twitch; to pull; to tweak.
Twin,a., Being one of two born at a birth; as, a twin brother or sister. 
Twit,v. t., To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect, misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood. 
Tydy,n., Same as Tidy.
Tyer,n., One who ties, or unites. 
Tyke,n., See 2d Tike.
Tymp,n., A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the archway in which the dam stands.
Tynd,v. t., To shut; to close.
Tyne,v. t., To lose.
Tyny,a., Small; tiny.
Type,n., The mark or impression of something; stamp; impressed sign; emblem.
Typo,n., A compositor.
Tyre,, Curdled milk.
Tyro,n., A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a novice.
Tzar,n., The emperor of Russia. See Czar.
Udal,n., In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or allodial, right. 
Ugly,superl., Offensive to the sight; contrary to beauty; being of disagreeable or loathsome aspect; unsightly; repulsive; deformed.
Ulan,n., See Uhlan.
Ulna,n., The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius. 
Ulva,n., A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce.
Umbe,prep., About.
Umbo,n., The boss of a shield, at or near the middle, and usually projecting, sometimes in a sharp spike. 
Unau,n., The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus
Unbe,v. t., To cause not to be; to cause to be another.
Unce,n., A claw.
Unco,a., Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved. 
Unci,pl. , of Uncus
Unde,a., Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines. 
Undo,v. t., To reverse, as what has been done; to annul; to bring to naught. 
Unio,n., Any one of numerous species of fresh-water mussels belonging to Unio and many allied genera.
Unit,n., A single thing or person.
Unke,n., A European aquatic toad (Bombinator igneus
Unto,prep., To; -- now used only in antiquated, formal, or scriptural style. See To. 
Unty,v. t., To untie.
Upas,n., A tree (Antiaris toxicaria
Upon,prep., On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable. 
Ural,a., Pertaining to, or designating, the Urals, a mountain range between Europe and Asia. 
Urao,n., See Trona.
Urdu,n., The language more generally called Hindustanee.
Urea,a., A very soluble crystalline body which is the chief constituent of the urine in mammals and some other animals. It is also present in small quantity in blood, serous fluids, lymph, the liver, etc. 
Urge,v. t., To press; to push; to drive; to impel; to force onward.
Uric,a., Of or pertaining to urine; obtained from urine; as, uric acid. 
Urim,n., A part or decoration of the breastplate of the high priest among the ancient Jews, by which Jehovah revealed his will on certain occasions. Its nature has been the subject of conflicting conjectures. 
Urox,n., The aurochs.
Urry,n., A sort of blue or black clay lying near a vein of coal.
Ursa,n., Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below.
Urus,n., A very large, powerful, and savage extinct bovine animal (Bos urus / primigenius
Urva,n., The crab-eating ichneumon (Herpestes urva
Used,imp. & p. p., of Use
User,n., One who uses.
Utas,n., The eighth day after any term or feast; the octave; as, the utas of St. Michael. 
Utes,n. pl., An extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions. They are subdivided into several subordinate tribes, some of which are among the most degraded of North American Indians. 
Utia,n., Any species of large West Indian rodents of the genus Capromys, or Utia. In general appearance and habits they resemble rats, but they are as large as rabbits. 
Utis,n., See Utas.
Utro,, - (/
Uvea,n., The posterior pigmented layer of the iris; -- sometimes applied to the whole iris together with the choroid coat.
Uvic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, grapes; specifically, designating an organic acid, C7H8O3 (also called pyrotritartaric acid
Vade,v. i., To fade; hence, to vanish. 
Vail,n. & v. t., Same as Veil.
Vain,superl., Having no real substance, value, or importance; empty; void; worthless; unsatisfying. 
Vair,n., The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates. It is represented in heraldry by a series of small shields placed close together, and alternately white and blue. 
Vale,n., A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley. 
Vamp,v. i., To advance; to travel.
Vane,n., A contrivance attached to some elevated object for the purpose of showing which way the wind blows; a weathercock. It is usually a plate or strip of metal, or slip of wood, often cut into some fanciful form, and placed upon a perpendicular axis around which it moves freely. 
Vang,n., A rope to steady the peak of a gaff.
Vant,v. i., See Vaunt.
Vara,n., A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard. The vara now in use equals 33.385 inches.
Vare,n., A wand or staff of authority or justice.
Vari,n., The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta
Vark,n., The bush hog, or boshvark. 
Vary,v. t., To change the aspect of; to alter in form, appearance, substance, position, or the like; to make different by a partial change; to modify; as, to vary the properties, proportions, or nature of a thing; to vary a posture or an attitude; to vary one's dress or opinions. 
Vasa,pl. , of Vas
Vase,n., A vessel adapted for various domestic purposes, and anciently for sacrificial uses; especially, a vessel of antique or elegant pattern used for ornament; as, a porcelain vase; a gold vase; a Grecian vase. See Illust. of Portland vase, under Portland. 
Vast,superl., Waste; desert; desolate; lonely.
Vaut,v. i., To vault; to leap.
Vaza,, Any one of several species of parrots of the genus Coracopsis, native of Madagascar; -- called also vasa parrot. 
Veal,n., The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food.
Veda,n., The ancient sacred literature of the Hindus; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature. 
Veer,v. i., To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north. 
Vega,n., A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra. 
Veil,n., Something hung up, or spread out, to intercept the view, and hide an object; a cover; a curtain; esp., a screen, usually of gauze, crape, or similar diaphnous material, to hide or protect the face. 
Vein,n., One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart. See Artery, 2. 
Vele,n., A veil.
Vell,n., The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag. 
Vela,pl. , of Velum
Vena,n., A vein.
Vend,v. t., To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables. 
Vent,n., Sale; opportunity to sell; market.
Verb,n., A word; a vocable.
Verd,n., The privilege of cutting green wood within a forest for fuel.
Vers,n. sing. & pl., A verse or verses. See Verse.
Vert,n., Everything that grows, and bears a green leaf, within the forest; as, to preserve vert and venison is the duty of the verderer. 
Very,v. t., True; real; actual; veritable.
Vese,n., Onset; rush; violent draught or wind.
Vest,n., An article of clothing covering the person; an outer garment; a vestment; a dress; a vesture; a robe.
Veto,n., An authoritative prohibition or negative; a forbidding; an interdiction.
Vial,n., A small bottle, usually of glass; a little glass vessel with a narrow aperture intended to be closed with a stopper; as, a vial of medicine. 
Vice,n., A defect; a fault; an error; a blemish; an imperfection; as, the vices of a political constitution; the vices of a horse. 
Vida,, The whidah bird.
Vide,, imperative sing. of L. videre, to see; -- used to direct attention to something; as, vide supra, see above. 
Vied,imp. & p. p., of Vie
View,n., The act of seeing or beholding; sight; look; survey; examination by the eye; inspection.
Vild,a., Vile.
Vile,superl., Low; base; worthless; mean; despicable.
Vill,n., A small collection of houses; a village.
Vine,n., Any woody climbing plant which bears grapes.
Viny,a., Of or pertaining to vines; producing, or abounding in, vines. 
Viol,n., A stringed musical instrument formerly in use, of the same form as the violin, but larger, and having six strings, to be struck with a bow, and the neck furnished with frets for stopping the strings. 
Vire,n., An arrow, having a rotary motion, formerly used with the crossbow. Cf. Vireton. 
Visa,n., See Vis/.
Vise,n., An instrument consisting of two jaws, closing by a screw, lever, cam, or the like, for holding work, as in filing. 
Viva,, By word of mouth; orally.
Vive,, Long live, that is, success to; as, vive le roi, long live the king; vive la bagatelle, success to trifles or sport. 
Void,a., Containing nothing; empty; vacant; not occupied; not filled.
Voir,, An oath administered to a witness, usually before being sworn in chief, requiring him to speak the truth, or make true answers in reference to matters inquired of, to ascertain his competency to give evidence. 
Vole,n., A deal at cards that draws all the tricks.
Volt,n., A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round a center makes two concentric tracks.
Vote,n., An ardent wish or desire; a vow; a prayer.
Vugg,n., Alt. of Vugh
Vugh,n., A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle.
Vyce,n., A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel head while the staves are being closed around it.
Waag,n., The grivet.
Wadd,n., An earthy oxide of manganese, or mixture of different oxides and water, with some oxide of iron, and often silica, alumina, lime, or baryta; black ocher. There are several varieties. 
Wade,n., Woad.
Wady,n., A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season. 
Waeg,n., The kittiwake.
Waft,v. t., To give notice to by waving something; to wave the hand to; to beckon.
Wage,v. t., To pledge; to hazard on the event of a contest; to stake; to bet, to lay; to wager; as, to wage a dollar. 
Waid,a., Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down.
Waif,n., Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him, and brought him to justice. 
Wail,v. t., To choose; to select.
Wain,n., A four-wheeled vehicle for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.; a wagon. 
Wair,n., A piece of plank two yard/ long and a foot broad.
Wait,v. i., To watch; to observe; to take notice.
Wake,n., The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army. 
Woke,, of Wake
Wake,v. i., To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep.
Wald,n., A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald.
Wale,n., A streak or mark made on the skin by a rod or whip; a stripe; a wheal. See Wheal.
Walk,v. i., To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running, or lifting one foot entirely before the other touches the ground. 
Wall,n., A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale.
Walm,v. i., To roll; to spout; to boil up.
Waly,interj., An exclamation of grief.
Wamp,n., The common American eider.
Wand,n., A small stick; a rod; a verge.
Wane,v. i., To be diminished; to decrease; -- contrasted with wax, and especially applied to the illuminated part of the moon. 
Wang,n., The jaw, jawbone, or cheek bone. 
Want,v. i., The state of not having; the condition of being without anything; absence or scarcity of what is needed or desired; deficiency; lack; as, a want of power or knowledge for any purpose; want of food and clothing. 
Wany,v. i., To wane.
Wapp,n., A fair-leader.
Ward,a., The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day. See the Note under Watch, n., 1. 
Ware,imp., Wore.
Wark,n., Work; a building.
Warm,superl., Having heat in a moderate degree; not cold as, warm milk. 
Warn,v. t., To refuse.
Warp,v. t., To throw; hence, to send forth, or throw out, as words; to utter. 
Wart,n., A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillae, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them. 
Wary,a., Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful. 
Wase,n., A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head. 
Wash,v. t., To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments; to wash sheep or wool; to wash the pavement or floor; to wash the bark of trees. 
Wasp,n., Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets. 
Wast,, The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style. See Was. 
Watt,n., A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse power is approximately equal to 746 watts. 
Waul,v. i., To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail.
Waur,a., Worse.
Wave,v. t., See Waive.
Wavy,a., Rising or swelling in waves; full of waves.
Wave,n., Woe.
Wawe,n., A wave.
Wawl,v. i., See Waul.
Waxy,a., Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible. 
Wayk,a., Weak.
Weak,v. i., Wanting physical strength.
Weal,n., The mark of a stripe. See Wale.
Wean,a., To accustom and reconcile, as a child or other young animal, to a want or deprivation of mother's milk; to take from the breast or udder; to cause to cease to depend on the mother nourishment. 
Wear,n., Same as Weir.
Wore,imp., of Wear
Worn,p. p., of Wear
Wear,v. t., To carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat; to wear a shackle. 
Wove,imp., of Weave
Weed,n., A garment; clothing; especially, an upper or outer garment. 
Week,n., A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next. 
Weel,a. & adv., Well.
Ween,v. i., To think; to imagine; to fancy.
Weep,n., The lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry.
Wept,imp. & p. p., of Weep
Weep,v. i., Formerly, to express sorrow, grief, or anguish, by outcry, or by other manifest signs; in modern use, to show grief or other passions by shedding tears; to shed tears; to cry. 
Weet,a. & n., Wet.
Weft,, imp. & p. p. of Wave.
Weir,n., Alt. of Wear
Wear,n., A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like. 
Weka,n., A New Zealand rail (Ocydromus australis
Weld,v. t., To wield.
Wele,n., Prosperity; happiness; well-being; weal.
Welk,v. i., To wither; to fade; also, to decay; to decline; to wane. 
Well,v. i., An issue of water from the earth; a spring; a fountain.
Wels,n., The sheatfish; -- called also waller.
Welt,n., That which, being sewed or otherwise fastened to an edge or border, serves to guard, strengthen, or adorn it 
Wend,, p. p. of Wene.
Went,, of Wend
Wend,v. i., To go; to pass; to betake one's self.
Wene,v. i., To ween.
Went,, imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection. See Go. 
Wept,, imp. & p. p. of Weep.
Were,v. t. & i., To wear. See 3d Wear.
Werk,v., Alt. of Werke
Wern,v. t., To refuse.
Wert,, The second person singular, indicative and subjunctive moods, imperfect tense, of the verb be. It is formed from were, with the ending -t, after the analogy of wast. Now used only in solemn or poetic style. 
Wesh,imp., Washed.
West,n., The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to set at the equinox; or, the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and on the left hand of a person facing north; the point directly opposite to east. 
Whan,adv., When.
Whap,v. i., Alt. of Whop
Whop,v. i., To throw one's self quickly, or by an abrupt motion; to turn suddenly; as, she whapped down on the floor; the fish whapped over. 
Whap,v. t., Alt. of Whop
Whop,v. t., To beat or strike.
Whap,n., Alt. of Whop
Whop,n., A blow, or quick, smart stroke. 
What,pron., a., & adv., As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is lost? 
When,adv., At what time; -- used interrogatively.
Whet,v. t., To rub or on with some substance, as a piece of stone, for the purpose of sharpening; to sharpen by attrition; as, to whet a knife. 
Whew,n. & interj., A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike. 
Whey,n., The serum, or watery part, of milk, separated from the more thick or coagulable part, esp. in the process of making cheese. 
Whig,n., Acidulated whey, sometimes mixed with buttermilk and sweet herbs, used as a cooling beverage. 
Whim,n., The European widgeon.
Whin,n., Gorse; furze. See Furze.
Whip,v. t., To strike with a lash, a cord, a rod, or anything slender and lithe; to lash; to beat; as, to whip a horse, or a carpet. 
Whir,v. i., To whirl round, or revolve, with a whizzing noise; to fly or more quickly with a buzzing or whizzing sound; to whiz. 
Whit,n., The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; an iota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negative sentence.
Whiz,v. i., To make a humming or hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying through the air; to fly or move swiftly with a sharp hissing or whistling sound. 
Whoa,interj., Stop; stand; hold. See Ho, 2. 
Whom,pron., The objective case of who. See Who.
Whop,v. t., Same as Whap.
Whot,a., Hot.
Whur,v. i., To make a rough, humming sound, like one who pronounces the letter r with too much force; to whir; to birr. 
Wich,n., A variant of 1st Wick.
Wick,n., Alt. of Wich
Wich,n., A street; a village; a castle; a dwelling; a place of work, or exercise of authority; -- now obsolete except in composition; as, bailiwick, Warwick, Greenwick. 
Wick,n., A bundle of fibers, or a loosely twisted or braided cord, tape, or tube, usually made of soft spun cotton threads, which by capillary attraction draws up a steady supply of the oil in lamps, the melted tallow or wax in candles, or other material used for illumination, in small successive portions, to be burned. 
Wide,superl., Having considerable distance or extent between the sides; spacious across; much extended in a direction at right angles to that of length; not narrow; broad; as, wide cloth; a wide table; a wide highway; a wide bed; a wide hall or entry. 
Wier,n., Same as Weir.
Wife,n., A woman; an adult female; -- now used in literature only in certain compounds and phrases, as alewife, fishwife, goodwife, and the like. 
Wigg,n., Alt. of Wig
Wike,n., A temporary mark or boundary, as a bough of a tree set up in marking out or dividing anything, as tithes, swaths to be mowed in common ground, etc.; -- called also wicker. 
Wild,superl., Living in a state of nature; inhabiting natural haunts, as the forest or open field; not familiar with, or not easily approached by, man; not tamed or domesticated; as, a wild boar; a wild ox; a wild cat. 
Wile,n., A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement. 
Wilk,n., See Whelk.
Will,v., The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do; the power or faculty of preferring or selecting one of two or more objects.
Wilt,, 2d pers. sing. of Will.
Wily,superl., Full of wiles, tricks, or stratagems; using craft or stratagem to accomplish a purpose; mischievously artful; subtle. 
Wind,v. t., To turn completely, or with repeated turns; especially, to turn about something fixed; to cause to form convolutions about anything; to coil; to twine; to twist; to wreathe; as, to wind thread on a spool or into a ball. 
Wine,n., The expressed juice of grapes, esp. when fermented; a beverage or liquor prepared from grapes by squeezing out their juice, and (usually
Wing,n., One of the two anterior limbs of a bird, pterodactyl, or bat. They correspond to the arms of man, and are usually modified for flight, but in the case of a few species of birds, as the ostrich, auk, etc., the wings are used only as an assistance in running or swimming. 
Wink,v. i., To nod; to sleep; to nap.
Winy,a., Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste. 
Wipe,n., The lapwing.
Wire,n., A thread or slender rod of metal; a metallic substance formed to an even thread by being passed between grooved rollers, or drawn through holes in a plate of steel. 
Wiry,a., Made of wire; like wire; drawn out like wire.
Wise,v., Having knowledge; knowing; enlightened; of extensive information; erudite; learned.
Wish,v. t., To have a desire or yearning; to long; to hanker.
Wisp,n., A small bundle, as of straw or other like substance. 
Wist,v., Knew.
Wite,pl., of Wit
Wist,p. p., of Wit
Wite,v., To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame. 
With,n., See Withe.
Wive,v. i., To marry, as a man; to take a wife. 
Woad,n., An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria
Wode,a., Mad. See Wood, a. 
Woke,imp. & p. p., Wake.
Wold,n., A wood; a forest.
Wolf,a., Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog. The best-known and most destructive species are the European wolf (Canis lupus
Woll,v. t. & i., See 2d Will.
Womb,n., The belly; the abdomen.
Wone,a., To dwell; to abide.
Wong,n., A field.
Wont,a., Using or doing customarily; accustomed; habituated; used.
Wood,a., Mad; insane; possessed; rabid; furious; frantic.
Woof,n., The threads that cross the warp in a woven fabric; the weft; the filling; the thread usually carried by the shuttle in weaving.
Wook,imp., Woke.
Wool,n., The soft and curled, or crisped, species of hair which grows on sheep and some other animals, and which in fineness sometimes approaches to fur; -- chiefly applied to the fleecy coat of the sheep, which constitutes a most essential material of clothing in all cold and temperate climates. 
Woon,n., Dwelling. See Wone.
Word,n., The spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas; a single component part of human speech or language; a constituent part of a sentence; a term; a vocable. 
Wore,, imp. of Wear.
Work,n., Exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physically labor. 
Worm,n., A creeping or a crawling animal of any kind or size, as a serpent, caterpillar, snail, or the like. 
Worn,, p. p. of Wear.
Wort,n., A plant of any kind.
Wost,, 2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. 
Woul,v. i., To howl.
Wove,, p. pr. & rare vb. n. of Weave.
Wowe,v. t. & i., To woo.
Wowf,a., Disordered or unsettled in intellect; deranged.
Wrap,v. t., To snatch up; transport; -- chiefly used in the p. p. wrapt.
Wraw,a., Angry; vexed; wrathful.
Wray,v. t., To reveal; to disclose.
Wren,n., Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidae.
Wrey,v. t., See Wray.
Wrie,a. & v., See Wry.
Wrig,v. i., To wriggle.
Writ,obs., 3d pers. sing. pres. of Write, for writeth. 
Wull,v. t. & i., See 2d Will.
Wust,, Alt. of Wuste
Wyes,pl. , of Wye
Wyke,n., Week.
Wyla,n., A helmeted Australian cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus
Wynd,n., A narrow lane or alley.
Wynn,n., A kind of timber truck, or carriage. 
Wype,n., The wipe, or lapwing. 
Wyte,, Alt. of Wyten
Xeme,n., An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii
Xyst,n., Alt. of Xystus
Yama,n., The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands. 
Yamp,n., An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri
Yang,n., The cry of the wild goose; a honk.
Yank,n., A jerk or twitch.
Yard,v. i., A rod; a stick; a staff.
Yare,n., Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move.
Yark,v. t. & i., To yerk.
Yarn,n., Spun wool; woolen thread; also, thread of other material, as of cotton, flax, hemp, or silk; material spun and prepared for use in weaving, knitting, manufacturing sewing thread, or the like. 
Yarr,v. i., To growl or snarl as a dog.
Yate,n., A gate. See 1st Gate.
Yaud,n., See Yawd.
Yaul,n., See Yawl.
Yaup,v. i., To cry out like a child; to yelp.
Yawd,n., A jade; an old horse or mare.
Yawl,n., A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars. 
Yawn,v. i., To open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or fatigue; to gape; to oscitate. 
Yawp,v. & n., See Yaup.
Yaws,n., A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa, characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants, strawberries, or raspberries. There are several varieties of this disease, variously known as framboesia, pian, verrugas, and crab-yaws. 
Yead,v. i., Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but sometimes mistaken for a present. See the Note under Yede. 
Yean,v. t. & i., To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean. 
Year,n., The time of the apparent revolution of the sun trough the ecliptic; the period occupied by the earth in making its revolution around the sun, called the astronomical year; also, a period more or less nearly agreeing with this, adopted by various nations as a measure of time, and called the civil year; as, the common lunar year of 354 days, still in use among the Mohammedans; the year of 360 days, etc. In common usage, the year consists of 365 days, and every fourth year (called bissextile, or leap year
Yede,imp., Went. See Yode.
Yeel,n., An eel.
Yelk,n., Same as Yolk.
Yell,v. i., To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream as with agony or horror. 
Yelp,v. i., To boast.
Yend,v. t., To throw; to cast.
Yerd,n., See 1st & 2d Yard.
Yerk,v. t., To throw or thrust with a sudden, smart movement; to kick or strike suddenly; to jerk. 
Yern,v. i., See 3d Yearn.
Yest,n., See Yeast.
Yeve,v. i., To give.
Yghe,n., Eye.
Yold,obs. p. p., of Yield
Yift,n., Gift.
Yite,n., The European yellow-hammer.
Yive,v. t. & i., To give.
Ymel,prep., Among.
Ynow,a., Enough.
Yode,imp., Went; walked; proceeded.
Yoga,n., A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire superhuman faculties. 
Yogi,n., A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic.
Yoit,n., The European yellow-hammer.
Yoke,n., A bar or frame of wood by which two oxen are joined at the heads or necks for working together.
Yold,p. p., Yielded.
Yolk,n., The yellow part of an egg; the vitellus.
Yoll,v. i., To yell.
Yond,a., Furious; mad; angry; fierce.
Yoni,n., The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the female power in nature, is worshiped. Cf. Lingam. 
Yore,adv., In time long past; in old time; long since.
York,, The one of the three printed uses of England which was followed in the north. It was based on the Sarum use. See Use, n., 6. 
Yote,v. t., To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water. 
Youl,v. i., To yell; to yowl.
Your,pron. & a., The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.
Yowe,n., A ewe.
Yowl,v. i., To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to yell. 
Yren,n., Iron.
Yuck,v. i., To itch.
Yuen,n., The crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus
Yuga,n., Any one of the four ages, Krita, or Satya, Treta, Dwapara, and Kali, into which the Hindoos divide the duration or existence of the world. 
Yuke,v. i. & t., Same as Yuck.
Yule,n., Christmas or Christmastide; the feast of the Nativity of our Savior.
Yunx,n., A genus of birds comprising the wrynecks.
Yvel,a. & adv., Evil; ill.
Ywar,a., Aware; wary.
Ywis,adv., Certainly; most likely; truly; probably.
Zaim,n., A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same name.
Zain,n., A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no spots. 
Zany,n., A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Zati,n., A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus
Zeal,n., Passionate ardor in the pursuit of anything; eagerness in favor of a person or cause; ardent and active interest; engagedness; enthusiasm; fervor.
Zebu,n., A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus
Zein,n., A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea
Zend,n., Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzv/resh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect
Zero,n., A cipher; nothing; naught.
Zest,n., A piece of orange or lemon peel, or the aromatic oil which may be squeezed from such peel, used to give flavor to liquor, etc. 
Zeta,n., A Greek letter corresponding to our z.
Zeus,n., The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades
Zimb,n., A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia. It is allied to the tsetse fly, and, like the latter, is destructive to cattle. 
Zinc,n., An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is malleable, especially when heated. It is not easily oxidized in moist air, and hence is used for sheeting, coating galvanized iron, etc. It is used in making brass, britannia, and other alloys, and is also largely consumed in electric batteries. Symbol Zn. Atomic weight 64.9. 
Zink,n., See Zinc.
Zion,n., A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his successors. 
Zobo,n., A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and milk. It is supposed to be a hybrid between the zebu and the yak.
Zoea,n., A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea, especially of crabs and certain Anomura. 
Zoic,a., Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life. 
Zona,n., A zone or band; a layer.
Zone,n., A girdle; a cincture.
Zoon,n., An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed to zooid.
Zope,n., A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus
Zubr,n., The aurochs.
Zyme,n., A ferment.
