Abacus,n., A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc. 
Abaist,p. p., Abashed; confounded; discomfited.
Abanet,n., See Abnet.
Abanga,n., A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest. 
Abased,imp. & p. p., of Abase
Abaser,n., He who, or that which, abases. 
Abassi,n., Alt. of Abassis
Abated,imp. & p. p., of Abate
Abater,n., One who, or that which, abates. 
Abatis,n., Alt. of Abattis
Abator,n., One who abates a nuisance.
Abawed,p. p., Astonished; abashed.
Abbacy,n., The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot. 
Abbess,n., A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey. 
Abbeys,pl. , of Abbey
Abdest,n., Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite.
Abduce,v. t., To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part.
Abduct,v. t., To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human being
Abegge,, Same as Aby.
Abider,n., One who abides, or continues. 
Abject,a., Cast down; low-lying.
Abjure,v. t., To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon it forever. 
Ablaut,n., The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. 
Ablaze,adv. & a., On fire; in a blaze, gleaming. 
Ablins,adv., Perhaps.
Abloom,adv., In or into bloom; in a blooming state.
Ablude,v. t., To be unlike; to differ.
Ablush,adv. & a., Blushing; ruddy.
Aboard,adv., On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car. 
Aboral,a., Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth. 
Abound,v. i., To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
Abrade,v. t., To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks. 
Abraid,v. t. & i., To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out. 
Abrase,a., Rubbed smooth.
Abraum,n., Alt. of Abraum salts
Abroad,adv., At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad. 
Abrood,adv., In the act of brooding.
Abrook,v. t., To brook; to endure.
Abrupt,a., Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks; precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places. 
Absent,a., Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
Absist,v. i., To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist.
Absorb,v. t., To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as if by swallowing up; to use up; to include.
Absque,, The technical words of denial used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated. 
Absume,v. t., To consume gradually; to waste away.
Absurd,a., Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream. 
Aburst,adv., In a bursting condition.
Abused,imp. & p. p., of Abuse
Abuser,n., One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].
Acacia,n., A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals. 
Acacin,n., Alt. of Acacine
Acajou,n., The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew. 
Acanth,n., Same as Acanthus.
Acarus,n., A genus including many species of small mites.
Acater,n., See Caterer.
Acates,n. pl., See Cates.
Accede,v. i., To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede.
Accend,v. t., To set on fire; to kindle.
Accent,n., A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others. 
Accept,v. t., To receive with a consenting mind (something offered
Access,n., A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission; accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince. 
Accite,v. t., To cite; to summon.
Accloy,v. t., To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to burden. See Cloy.
Accoil,v. t., To gather together; to collect.
Accord,v. t., Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent. 
Accost,v. t., To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or side of. 
Accrue,n., To increase; to augment.
Accumb,v. i., To recline, as at table. 
Accuse,n., Accusation.
Aceric,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid. 
Acetal,n., A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black. 
Acetic,a., Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar; as, acetic fermentation. 
Acetin,n., A combination of acetic acid with glycerin.
Acetyl,n., A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is acetic acid. 
Achate,n., An agate.
Aching,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ache
Achean,a & n., See Achaean, Achaian. 
Achene,n., Alt. of Achenium
Aching,a., That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.
Acidic,a., Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic.
Acidly,adv., Sourly; tartly.
Acinus,n., One of the small grains or drupelets which make up some kinds of fruit, as the blackberry, raspberry, etc. 
Acknow,v. t., To recognize.
Acnode,n., An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coordinates satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as belonging to the curve. 
Acopic,a., Relieving weariness; restorative.
Acquit,p. p., Acquitted; set free; rid of.
Acrase,v. t., Alt. of Acraze
Acraze,v. t., To craze.
Acrasy,n., Excess; intemperance.
Acrisy,n., Inability to judge.
Acrita,n. pl., The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has been observed. 
Acrite,a., Acritan.
Acrity,n., Sharpness; keenness.
Acrook,adv., Crookedly.
Across,n., From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river. 
Acting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Act
Action,n., A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest; the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another; agency; activity; operation; as, the action of heat; a man of action. 
Active,a., Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to passive, that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind. 
Actual,a., Involving or comprising action; active.
Acture,n., Action.
Acuate,v. t., To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken.
Acuity,n., Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc. 
Aculei,pl. , of Aculeus
Acumen,n., Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination.
Adagio,a. & adv., Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio, adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow. 
Adamic,a., Alt. of Adamical
Adam's,, See under Adam.
Adance,adv., Dancing.
Adarce,n., A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. 
Adatis,n., A fine cotton cloth of India.
Adaunt,v. t., To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate.
Adding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Add
Addeem,v. t., To award; to adjudge.
Addice,n., See Adze.
Addict,p. p., Addicted; devoted.
Addled,imp. & p. p., of Addle
Addoom,v. t., To adjudge.
Adduce,v. t., To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege. 
Adduct,v. t., To draw towards a common center or a middle line.
Adempt,p. p., Takes away.
Adesmy,n., The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually entire.
Adhere,v. i., To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become joined or united; as, wax to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere to the pleura. 
Adhort,v. t., To exhort; to advise.
Adieus,pl. , of Adieu
Adight,p. p., of Adight
Adipic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; -- applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric acid. 
Adipsy,n., Absence of thirst.
Adject,v. t., To add or annex; to join.
Adjoin,v. t., To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact with; to attach; to append.
Adjure,v. t., To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or impressive manner; to entreat earnestly. 
Adjust,v. t., To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or things to a standard. 
Adjute,v. t., To add.
Admire,v. t., To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to marvel at.
Admove,v. t., To move or conduct to or toward.
Adnate,a., Grown to congenitally.
Adnoun,n., An adjective, or attribute. 
Adonic,a., Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty. 
Adonis,n., A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the chase by a wild boar.
Adoors,, At the door; of the door; as, out adoors. 
Adorer,n., One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly; an ardent admirer.
Adread,v. t. & i., To dread.
Adrian,a., Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows. 
Adrift,adv. & a., Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of wind and waves. Also fig.
Adroit,a., Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply. 
Advene,v. i., To accede, or come (to
Advent,n., The period including the four Sundays before Christmas.
Adverb,n., A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle, adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes well; paper extremely white. 
Advert,v. i., To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said. 
Advice,n., An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed; counsel. 
Advise,v. t., To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to be followed; to counsel; to warn. 
Adviso,n., Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat. 
Advoke,v. t., To summon; to call.
Adward,n., Award.
Adytum,n., The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum. 
Aedile,n., A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer. 
Aegean,a., Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea, east of Greece. See Archipelago. 
Aeneid,n., The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Aeneas. 
Aeolic,a., Aeolian, 1; as, the Aeolic dialect; the Aeolic mode. 
Aeolus,n., The god of the winds.
Aerate,v. t., To combine or charge with gas; usually with carbonic acid gas, formerly called fixed air. 
Aerial,a., Of or pertaining to the air, or atmosphere; inhabiting or frequenting the air; produced by or found in the air; performed in the air; as, aerial regions or currents. 
Aerify,v. t., To infuse air into; to combine air with.
Aerose,a., Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. 
Aerugo,n., The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris. 
Esopic,a., Same as Aesopian.
Aether,n., See Ether.
Afeard,p. a., Afraid.
Affair,n., That which is done or is to be done; matter; concern; as, a difficult affair to manage; business of any kind, commercial, professional, or public; -- often in the plural.   At the head of affairs.   Junius. 
Affear,v. t., To frighten.
Affect,v. t., To act upon; to produce an effect or change upon.
Affeer,v. t., To confirm; to assure.
Affile,v. t., To polish.
Affine,v. t., To refine.
Affirm,v. t., to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought before an appellate court for review. 
Afflux,n., A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood to the head. 
Afford,v. t., To give forth; to supply, yield, or produce as the natural result, fruit, or issue; as, grapes afford wine; olives afford oil; the earth affords fruit; the sea affords an abundant supply of fish. 
Affrap,v. t. & i., To strike, or strike down. 
Affray,v. t., To startle from quiet; to alarm.
Affret,n., A furious onset or attack.
Affuse,v. t., To pour out or upon.
Affied,imp. & p. p., of Affy
Afghan,a., Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.
Afield,adv., To, in, or on the field. 
Aflame,adv. & a., Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze.
Afloat,adv. & a., Borne on the water; floating; on board ship.
Aflush,adv. & a., In a flushed or blushing state.
Afraid,p. a., Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.
Afreet,n., Same as Afrit.
Afresh,adv., Anew; again; once more; newly.
Afrite,n., Alt. of Afreet
Afreet,n., A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant. 
Afront,adv., In front; face to face.
Agains,prep., Against; also, towards (in order to meet
Agamis,pl. , of Agami
Agamic,a., Produced without sexual union; as, agamic or unfertilized eggs. 
Agapae,pl. , of Agape
Agaric,n., A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the common mushroom is an example. 
Aghast,v. t., To affright; to terrify.
Agazed,p. p., Gazing with astonishment; amazed.
Agedly,adv., In the manner of an aged person.
Agency,n., The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in action; action; instrumentality.
Agenda,pl. , of Agendum
Aggest,v. t., To heap up.
Aghast,v. t., See Agast, v. t. 
Agible,a., Possible to be done; practicable.
Agleam,adv. & a., Gleaming; as, faces agleam. 
Aiglet,n., A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress. They were sometimes formed into small images. Hence,   aglet baby   (Shak.
Agnail,n., A corn on the toe or foot.
Agnate,a., Related or akin by the father's side; also, sprung from the same male ancestor. 
Agnize,v. t., To recognize; to acknowledge.
Agoing,adv., In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing. 
Agones,pl. , of Agon
Agonic,a., Not forming an angle.
Agouta,n., A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus
Agouti,n., Alt. of Agouty
Agouty,n., A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit, peculiar to South America and the West Indies. The most common species is the Dasyprocta agouti. 
Agrace,n. & v., See Aggrace.
Agreed,imp. & p. p., of Agree
Agreer,n., One who agrees.
Agrief,adv., In grief; amiss.
Agrise,v. i., To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear.
Agrope,adv. & a., In the act of groping.
Aguilt,v. t., To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong.
Aguise,n., Dress.
Aguish,a., Having the qualities of an ague; somewhat cold or shivering; chilly; shaky.
Ablins,adv., Perhaps; possibly.
Aich's,, A kind of gun metal, containing copper, zinc, and iron, but no tin. 
Aiding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Aid
Aidant,a., Helping; helpful; supplying aid.
Aidful,a., Helpful.
Aiglet,n., Same as Aglet.
Aigret,n., Alt. of Aigrette
Ailing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ail
Aiming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Aim
Airing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Air
Airily,adv., In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; flippantly.
Airing,n., A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's sake.
Aisled,a., Furnished with an aisle or aisles.
Aketon,n., See Acton.
Akimbo,a., With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned outward.
Alarum,n., See Alarm.
Alated,a., Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings. 
Alaunt,n., See Alan.
Albata,n., A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks, teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver, under German. 
Albedo,n., Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.
Albeit,conj., Even though; although; notwithstanding.
Albino,n., A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish condition from the absence of chlorophyll. 
Albion,n., An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry. 
Albite,n., A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization, and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar. 
Albugo,n., Same as Leucoma.
Alburn,n., The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls. 
Alcade,n., Same as Alcaid.
Alcaic,a., Pertaining to Alcaeus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b. c. 
Alcaid,n., Alt. of Alcayde
Alcedo,n., A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher (Alcedo ispida
Alcove,n., A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library. 
Alcyon,n., See Halcyon.
Aldern,a., Made of alder.
Aldine,a., An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics
Alegar,n., Sour ale; vinegar made of ale.
Aleger,a., Gay; cheerful; sprightly.
Alegge,v. t., To allay or alleviate; to lighten.
Alevin,n., Young fish; fry.
Algate,adv., Alt. of Algates
Algoid,a., Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga. 
Algous,a., Of or pertaining to the algae, or seaweeds; abounding with, or like, seaweed. 
Alible,a., Nutritive; nourishing.
Aliene,v. t., To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate. 
Alight,v. i., To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from a carriage; to dismount. 
Aliner,n., One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into line.
Alioth,n., A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in the Dipper. 
Aliped,a., Wing-footed, as the bat. 
Alkali,n., Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc. 
Allect,v. t., To allure; to entice.
Allege,v. t., To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to assert; as, to allege a fact. 
Alleys,pl. , of Alley
Allice,n., Alt. of Allis
Allied,a., United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.
Allium,n., A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive, etc. 
Allude,v. i., To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction. 
Allure,v. t., To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract. 
Allied,imp. & p. p., of Ally
Allies,pl. , of Ally
Almain,n., Alt. of Alman
Almery,n., See Ambry.
Almner,n., An almoner.
Almond,n., The fruit of the almond tree.
Almose,n., Alms.
Almost,adv., Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.
Almuce,n., Same as Amice, a hood or cape. 
Almude,n., A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons U. S. measure. In Turkey the   almud   is about 1.4 gallons. 
Alnage,n., Measurement (of cloth
Alpaca,n., An animal of Peru (Lama paco
Alpine,a., Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine snows; Alpine plants. 
Alpist,n., Alt. of Alpia
Alsike,n., A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium hybridum.
Altaic,a., Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central Asia. 
Altern,a., Acting by turns; alternate.
Althea,n., A genus of plants of the Mallow family. It includes the officinal marsh mallow, and the garden hollyhocks. 
Aludel,n., One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation. 
Alular,a., Pertaining to the alula.
Alumen,n., Alum.
Alumna,n. fem., A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college. 
Alumni,pl. , of Alumnus
Alveus,n., The channel of a river.
Alvine,a., Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines; as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions. 
Always,adv., At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually; as, God is always the same. 
Amadou,n., A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus and Polyporus
Amazed,imp. & p. p., of Amaze
Amazon,n., One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a female warrior. 
Ambigu,n., An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the same time.
Ambled,imp. & p. p., of Amble
Ambler,n., A horse or a person that ambles.
Ambush,v. t., A disposition or arrangement of troops for attacking an enemy unexpectedly from a concealed station. Hence: Unseen peril; a device to entrap; a snare.
Amende,n., A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.
Amends,n. sing. & pl., Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation.
Amenta,pl. , of Amentum
Amerce,v. t., To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars. 
Amidin,n., Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like horn. It is soluble in cold water. 
Amidst,prep., Alt. of Amid
Amioid,a., Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.
Ammite,n., Oolite or roestone; -- written also hammite.
Amnion,n., A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles. 
Amnios,n., Same as Amnion.
Amoeba,n., A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda. 
Amomum,n., A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear cardamoms, and grains of paradise. 
Amoret,n., An amorous girl or woman; a wanton.
Amorwe,adv., In the morning.
Amotus,a., Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does not touch the ground. 
Amount,n., To go up; to ascend.
Ampere,n., Alt. of Ampere
Amphid,n., A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. 
Amrita,n., Immortality; also, the nectar conferring immortality. 
Amulet,n., An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters. [Also used figuratively.] 
Amused,imp. & p. p., of Amuse
Amuser,n., One who amuses.
Amylic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. 
Amyous,a., Wanting in muscle; without flesh.
Anabas,n., A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes. 
Anadem,n., A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath.
Anakim,n. pl., Alt. of Anaks
Ananas,n., The pineapple (Ananassa sativa
Anarch,n., The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt.
Anatto,n., Same as Annotto.
Anbury,n., Alt. of Ambury
Ambury,n., A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.
Anchor,n., A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or chain
Ancile,n., The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome. 
Ancome,n., A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow. 
Ancone,n., The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter. 
Ancony,n., A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in the middle, but unwrought at the ends. 
Andean,a., Pertaining to the Andes.
Andine,a., Andean; as, Andine flora. 
Andron,n., The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower part of the house.
Aneath,prep. & adv., Beneath.
Anenst,a., Alt. of Anent
Anetic,a., Soothing.
Angina,n., Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. 
Angled,imp. & p. p., of Angle
Angler,n., One who angles.
Angles,n. pl., An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England
Anglic,a., Anglian.
Angola,n., A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.
Angora,n., A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia
Angust,a., Narrow; strait.
Anhang,v. t., To hang.
Anhele,v. i., To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for
Anhima,n., A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi (Palamedea cornuta
Anicut,n., Alt. of Annicut
Anient,v. t., Alt. of Anientise
Anight,adv., Alt. of Anights
Anilic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. 
Animal,n., An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an internal cavity or stomach for digestion; by giving carbonic acid to the air and taking oxygen in the process of respiration; and by increasing in motive power or active aggressive force with progress to maturity. 
Animus,n., Animating spirit; intention; temper.
Anisic,a., Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol. 
Ankled,a., Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. 
Anklet,n., An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.
Anlace,n., A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle.
Annals,n. pl., A relation of events in chronological order, each event being recorded under the year in which it happened. 
Annats,n. pl., Alt. of Annates
Anneal,v. t., To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less brittle; to temper; to toughen. 
Annual,a., Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or happening once in the year; yearly.
Annuli,pl. , of Annulus
Anodon,n., A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having no teeth at the hinge. 
Anoint,v. t., To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to spread over, as oil. 
Anolis,n., A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidae. They take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in America are often called chameleons. 
Anomal,n., Anything anomalous.
Anomia,n., A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for attachment. 
Anonym,n., One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for   pseudonym.   
Anopla,n. pl., One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.
Anopsy,a., Want or defect of sight; blindness.
Anotta,n., See Annotto.
Anoura,n., See Anura.
Answer,n., To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer a charge; to answer an accusation. 
Anteal,a., Being before, or in front. 
Anthem,n., Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the liturgy, set to sacred music. 
Anther,n., That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the ovary. 
Antiae,n. pl., The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some birds; the frontal points.
Antiar,n., A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria
Antler,n., The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine animal, as of a stag. 
Antlia,n., The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See Lepidoptera.
Antral,a., Relating to an antrum.
Antrum,n., A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus 
Anubis,n., An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits, represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox. 
Anyhow,adv., In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.
Anyone,n., One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody. [Commonly written as two words.]
Anyway,adv., Alt. of Anyways
Aonian,a., Pertaining to Aonia, in B/otia, or to the Muses, who were supposed to dwell there. 
Aorist,n., A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly indeterminate. 
Aortic,a., Of or pertaining to the aorta.
Aoudad,n., An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus
Apathy,n., Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference, incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion by pleasure, pain, or passion. 
Apaume,n., See Appaume.
Apepsy,n., Defective digestion, indigestion. 
Aperea,n., The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea
Apexes,pl. , of Apex
Apices,pl. , of Apex
Aphasy,n., Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain. 
Aphony,n., Loss of voice or vocal utterance.
Aphtha,n., One of the whitish specks called aphthae.
Apiary,n., A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse.
Apical,a., At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. 
Apices,n. pl., See Apex.
Apiece,adv., Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. 
Apiked,a., Trimmed.
Aplomb,n., Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.
Apnoea,n., Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.
Apodal,n., Without feet; footless.
Apodes,pl. , of Apode
Apodan,a., Apodal.
Apodes,n. pl., An order of fishes without ventral fins, including the eels. 
Apogee,n., That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth.
Apoise,adv., Balanced.
Apolar,a., Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to certain nerve cells.
Apollo,n., A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light and day (the   sun god  
Aporia,n., A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc. 
Apozem,n., A decoction or infusion.
Appair,v. t. & i., To impair; to grow worse.
Appall,a., To make pale; to blanch.
Appeal,v. t., To make application for the removal of (a cause
Appear,v. i., To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.
Append,v. t., To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was appended to the column. 
Appete,v. t., To seek for; to desire.
Appian,a., Of or pertaining to Appius.
Applot,v. t., To divide into plots or parts; to apportion.
Appose,v. t., To place opposite or before; to put or apply (one thing to another
Aptate,v. t., To make fit.
Aptera,n. pl., Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnaen order of insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders, centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several distinct classes and orders. 
Aptote,n., A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.
Aquila,n., A genus of eagles.
Aquose,a., Watery; aqueous.
Arabic,a., Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians.
Arabin,n., A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance. 
Arable,a., Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land which has been plowed or tilled. 
Araise,v. t., To raise.
Arango,n., A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from Bombay for use in the African slave trade.
Arbute,n., The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath family. It has a berry externally resembling the strawberry; the arbute tree. 
Arcade,n., A series of arches with the columns or piers which support them, the spandrels above, and other necessary appurtenances; sometimes open, serving as an entrance or to give light; sometimes closed at the back (as in the cut
Arcane,a., Hidden; secret.
Arcana,pl. , of Arcanum
Arched,imp. & p. p., of Arch
Archer,n., A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow. 
Arches,, pl. of Arch, n. 
Archil,n., A violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.
Archly,adv., In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness; slyly; waggishly.
Archon,n., One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by preeminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates. 
Arctic,a., Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle, region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature. 
Arcual,a., Of or pertaining to an arc.
Ardent,a., Hot or burning; causing a sensation of burning; fiery; as, ardent spirits, that is, distilled liquors; an ardent fever. 
Arenas,pl. , of Arena
Arenae,pl. , of Arena
Arenga,n., A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer
Areola,n., An interstice or small space, as between the cracks of the surface in certain crustaceous lichens; or as between the fibers composing organs or vessels that interlace; or as between the nervures of an insect's wing. 
Areole,n., Same as Areola.
Argali,n., A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali
Argala,n., The adjutant bird.
Argand,, A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney which allow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame.
Argean,a., Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.
Argent,n., Silver, or money. 
Argive,a., Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece. 
Argoan,a., Pertaining to the ship Argo.
Argosy,n., A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size. 
Argued,imp. & p. p., of Argue
Arguer,n., One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.
Argufy,v. t. & i., To argue pertinaciously.
Argute,a., Sharp; shrill.
Aright,adv., Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or crime; as, to worship God aright. 
Ariled,a., Having an aril.
Ariman,n., See Ahriman.
Ariose,a., Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony. 
Arioso,adv. & a., In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.
Arisen,p. p., of Arise
Arista,n., An awn.
Arkite,a., Belonging to the ark.
Arming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Arm
Armada,v. t., A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558. 
Armado,n., Armada.
Armful,n., As much as the arm can hold.
Arming,n., The act of furnishing with, or taking, arms. 
Armlet,n., A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea. 
Armory,n., A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe keeping.
Armpit,n., The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla.
Armure,n., Armor.
Arnica,n., A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana
Aroint,interj., Stand off, or begone. 
Around,adv., In a circle; circularly; on every side; round.
Arouse,v. t., To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties. 
Aroynt,interj., See Aroint.
Arpent,n., Alt. of Arpen
Arpine,n., An arpent.
Arrach,n., See Orach.
Arrack,n., A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice, molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc. 
Arrant,a., Notoriously or preeminently bad; thorough or downright, in a bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward. 
Arrear,adv., To or in the rear; behind; backwards.
Arrect,a., Alt. of Arrected
Arrest,v. t., To stop; to check or hinder the motion or action of; as, to arrest the current of a river; to arrest the senses. 
Arride,v. t., To please; to gratify.
Arrish,n., The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish.
Arrive,v. i., To come to the shore or bank. In present usage: To come in progress by water, or by traveling on land; to reach by water or by land; -- followed by at (formerly sometimes by to
Arroba,n., A Spanish weight used in Mexico and South America = 25.36 lbs. avoir.; also, an old Portuguese weight, used in Brazil = 32.38 lbs. avoir. 
Arrose,v. t., To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten.
Arrowy,a., Consisting of arrows.
Arroyo,n., A water course; a rivulet.
Arsine,n., A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having an odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen. 
Artery,n., The trachea or windpipe.
Artful,a., Performed with, or characterized by, art or skill. 
Arthen,a., Same as
Artiad,a., Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.
Artist,n., One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan.
Ascend,v. i., To move upward; to mount; to go up; to rise; -- opposed to descend.
Ascent,, The act of rising; motion upward; rise; a mounting upward; as, he made a tedious ascent; the ascent of vapors from the earth. 
Ascham,n., A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other implements of archery. 
Ascian,n., One of the Ascii.
Ashame,v. t., To shame.
Ashery,n., A depository for ashes.
Ashine,a., Shining; radiant.
Ashlar,n., Alt. of Ashler
Ashler,n., Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn stone. 
Ashore,adv., On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship
Asilus,n., A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the bee killer and robber fly. 
Asitia,n., Want of appetite; loathing of food.
Asking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ask
Askant,adv., Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion. 
Asking,n., The act of inquiring or requesting; a petition; solicitation.
Aslake,v. t. & i., To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.
Aslant,adv. & a., Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.
Asleep,a. & adv., In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant.
Aslope,adv. & a., Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction; sloping.
Asmear,a., Smeared over.
Aspect,n., The act of looking; vision; gaze; glance.
Aspire,v. t., To desire with eagerness; to seek to attain something high or great; to pant; to long; -- followed by to or after, and rarely by at; as, to aspire to a crown; to aspire after immorality. 
Aspish,a., Pertaining to, or like, an asp. 
Asquat,adv. & a., Squatting.
Assail,v. t., To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to assault; to molest; as, to assail a man with blows; to assail a city with artillery. 
Assart,n., The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus destroying the thickets or coverts of a forest. 
Assent,v. t., To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement, acquiescence, concurrence, or concession. 
Assert,v. t., To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to state positively; to aver; to asseverate. 
Assess,v., To value; to make a valuation or official estimate of for the purpose of taxation.
Assets,n. pl., Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees, so far as such goods or estate may extend. 
Assign,v. t., To appoint; to allot; to apportion; to make over.
Assish,a., Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.
Assist,v. t., To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor. 
Assize,n., An assembly of knights and other substantial men, with a bailiff or justice, in a certain place and at a certain time, for public business. 
Assoil,v. t., To set free; to release.
Assort,v. t., To separate and distribute into classes, as things of a like kind, nature, or quality, or which are suited to a like purpose; to classify; as, to assort goods. [Rarely applied to persons.] 
Assume,v. t., To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly. 
Assure,v. t., To make sure or certain; to render confident by a promise, declaration, or other evidence. 
Astart,v. t. & i., Same as Astert.
Astate,n., Estate; state.
Astern,adv., In or at the hinder part of a ship; toward the hinder part, or stern; backward; as, to go astern. 
Astert,v. t., To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun.
Asthma,n., A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a spasmodic contraction of the bronchi
Astond,, of Astone
Astone,v. t., To stun; to astonish; to stupefy.
Astony,v. t., To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay.
Astoop,adv., In a stooping or inclined position.
Astral,a., Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike. 
Astray,adv. & a., Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense; wandering; as, to lead one astray. 
Astrut,a. & adv., Sticking out, or puffed out; swelling; in a swelling manner. 
Astute,a., Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.
Aswail,n., The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus
Asweve,v. t., To stupefy.
Aswing,adv., In a state of swinging.
Aswoon,adv., In a swoon.
Asylum,n., A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly taken without sacrilege. 
Atabal,n., A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. 
Ataman,n., A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks. 
Ataunt,adv., Alt. of Ataunto
Atavic,a., Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism. 
Ataxia,n., Alt. of Ataxy
Ataxic,a., Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a
Atazir,n., The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men.
Ateles,n., A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita. 
Athink,v. t., To repent; to displease; to disgust.
Atomic,a., Alt. of Atomical
Atoned,imp. & p. p., of Atone
Atoner,n., One who makes atonement.
Atonic,a., Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic disease. 
Atrede,v. t., To surpass in council.
Atrial,a., Of or pertaining to an atrium.
Atrium,n., A square hall lighted from above, into which rooms open at one or more levels. 
Atrous,a., Coal-black; very black.
Atrypa,n., A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian limestones. 
Attach,v. t., To bind, fasten, tie, or connect; to make fast or join; as, to attach one thing to another by a string, by glue, or the like. 
Attack,v. t., To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to assault. 
Attain,v. t., To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain; to compass; as, to attain rest. 
Attame,v. t., To pierce; to attack.
Attask,v. t., To take to task; to blame.
Attend,v. t., To direct the attention to; to fix the mind upon; to give heed to; to regard.
Attent,v. t., Attentive; heedful.
Attest,v. t., To bear witness to; to certify; to affirm to be true or genuine; as, to attest the truth of a writing, a copy of record. 
Attire,v. t., To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or splendid garments. 
Attone,adv., See At one.
Attorn,v. t., To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon the alienation of the estate. 
Attrap,v. t., To entrap; to insnare.
Attune,v. t., To tune or put in tune; to make melodious; to adjust, as one sound or musical instrument to another; as, to attune the voice to a harp. 
Atwain,adv., In twain; asunder.
Atween,adv. or prep., Between.
Atwirl,a. & adv., Twisted; distorted; awry.
Atwite,v. t., To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid.
Atwixt,adv., Betwixt.
Atypic,a., Alt. of Atypical
Aubade,n., An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of morning. 
Auburn,a., Flaxen-colored.
Audita,, A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment is recovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequently accrued which could not have been availed of to prevent such judgment. 
Augean,a., Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules cleansed it in a single day. 
Augite,n., A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color, occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of the general term pyroxene. 
Augrim,n., See Algorism.
Augury,n., The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions of birds, etc.; divination. 
August,a., Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority. 
Aumail,v. t., To figure or variegate.
Aumbry,n., Same as Ambry.
Aumery,n., A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a place for alms. 
Auncel,n., A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly used in England. 
Aunter,v. t., Alt. of Auntre
Auntre,v. t., To venture; to dare.
Auntie,n., Alt. of Aunty
Aurate,n., A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium. 
Auriga,n., The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the bright star Capella. 
Aurist,n., One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.
Aurora,n., The rising light of the morning; the dawn of day; the redness of the sky just before the sun rises.
Aurous,a., Containing gold.
Auster,n., The south wind.
Austin,a., Augustinian; as, Austin friars. 
Author,n., The beginner, former, or first mover of anything; hence, the efficient cause of a thing; a creator; an originator. 
Autumn,n., The third season of the year, or the season between summer and winter, often called   the fall.   Astronomically, it begins in the northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23, and ends at the winter solstice, about December 23; but in popular language, autumn, in America, comprises September, October, and November. 
Avatar,n., The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu. 
Avaunt,interj., Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent to the phrase   Get thee gone.   
Avener,n., An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses.
Avenge,v. t., To take vengeance for; to exact satisfaction for by punishing the injuring party; to vindicate by inflicting pain or evil on a wrongdoer.
Avenor,n., See Avener.
Avenue,n., A way or opening for entrance into a place; a passage by which a place may by reached; a way of approach or of exit.
Averse,a., Turned away or backward.
Avesta,n., The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.
Aviary,n., A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house. 
Avocat,n., An advocate.
Avocet,n., Alt. of Avoset
Avoset,n., A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper. The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species is R. Americana. 
Avouch,v. t., To appeal to; to cite or claim as authority.
Avowed,imp. & p. p., of Avow
Avowal,n., An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles. 
Avowed,a., Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.
Avowee,n., The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee. See Advowson.
Avower,n., One who avows or asserts.
Avowry,n., An advocate; a patron; a patron saint.
Avoyer,n., A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.
Avulse,v. t., To pluck or pull off.
Awaked,, of Awake
Awaken,, of Awake
Awoken,, of Awake
Awaken,v. t., To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.
Aweary,a., Weary.
Aweigh,adv., Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor. 
Awhape,v. t., To confound; to terrify; to amaze.
Awhile,adv., For a while; for some time; for a short time.
Awless,a., Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear.
Awning,n., A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind. 
Awreak,v. t. & i., Alt. of Awreke
Awreke,v. t. & i., To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak.
Awrong,adv., Wrongly.
Awsome,a., Same as Awesome.
Axeman,, See Ax, Axman. 
Axilla,n., The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder. 
Axtree,n., Axle or axletree.
Axunge,n., Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.
Ayeins,adv. & prep., Again; back against.
Azalea,n., A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct from Rhododendron. 
Azonic,a., Confined to no zone or region; not local.
Azotic,a., Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. 
Azured,a., Of an azure color; sky-blue.
Azymic,a., Azymous.
Baaing,n., The bleating of a sheep.
Baalim,pl. , of Baal
Babble,v. i., To utter words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter inarticulate sounds; as a child babbles.
Babery,n., Finery of a kind to please a child.
Babian,n., Alt. of Babion
Babion,n., A baboon.
Babish,a., Like a babe; a childish; babyish.
Babism,n., The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements. 
Babist,n., A believer in Babism.
Bablah,n., The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab. 
Baboon,n., One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape. 
Babies,pl. , of Baby
Babied,imp. & p. p., of Baby
Backed,imp. & p. p., of Back
Backer,n., One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest. 
Bacule,n., See Bascule.
Badder,, compar. of Bad, a. 
Badger,n., An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another.
Badian,n., An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum
Baffle,v. t., To cause to undergo a disgraceful punishment, as a recreant knight. 
Bagged,imp. & p. p., of Bag
Bagmen,pl. , of Bagman
Bagman,n., A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen.
Bagnio,n., A house for bathing, sweating, etc.; -- also, in Turkey, a prison for slaves. 
Baguet,n., Alt. of Baguette
Bagwig,n., A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag. 
Baigne,v. i., To soak or drench.
Bailed,imp. & p. p., of Bail
Bailee,n., The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust. 
Bailer,n., See Bailor.
Bailey,n., The outer wall of a feudal castle.
Bailie,n., An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman. 
Bailor,n., One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.
Bairam,n., The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast. 
Baited,imp. & p. p., of Bait
Baiter,n., One who baits; a tormentor.
Baking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bake
Bakery,n., The trade of a baker.
Baking,n., The act or process of cooking in an oven, or of drying and hardening by heat or cold. 
Balaam,n., A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking. 
Balcon,n., A balcony.
Balder,n., The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya.
Baldly,adv., Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.
Baling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bale
Baleen,n., Plates or blades of   whalebone,   from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balaenoidea
Balize,n., A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.
Balked,imp. & p. p., of Balk
Balker,n., One who, or that which balks. 
Balled,imp. & p. p., of Ball
Ballad,n., A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas. 
Ballet,n., An artistic dance performed as a theatrical entertainment, or an interlude, by a number of persons, usually women. Sometimes, a scene accompanied by pantomime and dancing. 
Ballot,n., Originally, a ball used for secret voting. Hence: Any printed or written ticket used in voting. 
Ballow,n., A cudgel.
Balsam,n., A resin containing more or less of an essential or volatile oil.
Balter,v. t., To stick together.
Baltic,a., Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea. 
Bamboo,n., A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries. 
Banned,imp. & p. p., of Ban
Banana,n., A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum
Bancus,n., Alt. of Bank
Banded,imp. & p. p., of Band
Bander,n., One banded with others.
Bandit,n., An outlaw; a brigand.
Bandle,n., An Irish measure of two feet in length.
Bandog,n., A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up. 
Bandon,n., Disposal; control; license.
Banged,imp. & p. p., of Bang
Bangue,n., See Bhang.
Bangle,v. t., To waste by little and little; to fritter away.
Banian,n., A Hindoo trader, merchant, cashier, or money changer. 
Banish,v. t., To condemn to exile, or compel to leave one's country, by authority of the ruling power. 
Banked,imp. & p. p., of Bank
Banker,n., One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually, or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc. 
Banner,n., A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and used by a chief as his standard in battle. 
Bantam,n., A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java. 
Banter,v. t., To address playful good-natured ridicule to, -- the person addressed, or something pertaining to him, being the subject of the jesting; to rally; as, he bantered me about my credulity. 
Banyan,n., A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica
Baobab,n., A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata
Barred,imp. & p. p., of Bar
Barbed,imp. & p. p., of Barb
Barbel,n., A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.
Barber,n., One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to cut and dress the hair of his patrons. 
Barbet,n., A variety of small dog, having long curly hair. 
Barble,n., See Barbel.
Barbre,a., Barbarian.
Barcon,n., A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.
Barded,p.a., Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse.
Bardic,a., Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry. 
Baring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bare
Barege,n., A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted, silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted. 
Barely,adv., Without covering; nakedly.
Barful,a., Full of obstructions.
Bargee,n., A bargeman.
Barger,n., The manager of a barge.
Barite,n., Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent, colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular
Barium,n., One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high temperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from the facility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight, 137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta. 
Barked,imp. & p. p., of Bark
Barque,n., Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind. 
Barken,a., Made of bark.
Barker,n., An animal that barks; hence, any one who clamors unreasonably. 
Barley,n., A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and whisky. 
Baroko,n., A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative. 
Barony,n., The fee or domain of a baron; the lordship, dignity, or rank of a baron. 
Barque,n., Same as 3d Bark, n. 
Barras,n., A resin, called also galipot. 
Barred,, A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum
Barrel,n., A round vessel or cask, of greater length than breadth, and bulging in the middle, made of staves bound with hoops, and having flat ends or heads. 
Barren,a., Incapable of producing offspring; producing no young; sterile; -- said of women and female animals.
Barret,n., A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret cap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics. 
Barrow,n., A support having handles, and with or without a wheel, on which heavy or bulky things can be transported by hand. See Handbarrow, and Wheelbarrow. 
Barter,v. i., To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another, in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for the commodities transferred; to truck. 
Barton,n., The demesne lands of a manor; also, the manor itself. 
Barway,n., A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out of the posts. 
Baryta,n., An oxide of barium (or barytum
Basalt,n., A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-green particles of olivine frequently disseminated. 
Basing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Base
Basely,adv., In a base manner; with despicable meanness; dishonorably; shamefully.
Bashaw,n., A Turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha. 
Basify,v. t., To convert into a salifiable base.
Basion,n., The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the skull.
Basked,imp. & p. p., of Bask
Basket,n., A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or other flexible material, interwoven. 
Basnet,n., Same as Bascinet.
Basque,a., Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language. 
Basses,pl. , of Bass
Bassaw,n., See Bashaw.
Basset,n., A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been invented at Venice. 
Basted,imp. & p. p., of Baste
Baston,n., A staff or cudgel.
Basyle,n., A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element. 
Batted,imp. & p. p., of Bat
Batata,n., An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomaea batatas
Bating,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bate
Bateau,n., A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian lakes and rivers. 
Batful,v. i., Rich; fertile.
Bathed,imp. & p. p., of Bathe
Bather,n., One who bathes.
Bathos,n., A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or speech; anticlimax. 
Bating,prep., With the exception of; excepting.
Batlet,n., A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also batler, batling staff, batting staff. 
Batman,n., A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality; in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds. 
Batmen,pl. , of Batman
Batman,n., A man who has charge of a bathorse and his load.
Batoon,n., See Baton, and Baston. 
Battel,n., A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager. 
Batten,v. t., To make fat by plenteous feeding; to fatten.
Batter,v. t., To beat with successive blows; to beat repeatedly and with violence, so as to bruise, shatter, or demolish; as, to batter a wall or rampart. 
Battle,a., Fertile. See Battel, a. 
Batton,n., See Batten, and Baton. 
Battue,v. t., The act of beating the woods, bushes, etc., for game. 
Batule,n., A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule board.
Batzen,pl. , of Batz
Baubee,n., Same as Bawbee.
Bauble,n., A trifling piece of finery; a gewgaw; that which is gay and showy without real value; a cheap, showy plaything. 
Bavian,n., A baboon.
Bawbee,n., A halfpenny.
Bawble,n., A trinket. See Bauble.
Bawdry,n., The practice of procuring women for the gratification of lust.
Bawled,imp. & p. p., of Bawl
Bawler,n., One who bawls.
Bawrel,n., A kind of hawk.
Bawsin,n., Alt. of Bawson
Bawson,n., A badger.
Baxter,n., A baker; originally, a female baker. 
Baying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bay
Bayard,a., Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in the phrase blind bayard, an old blind horse. 
Bayous,pl. , of Bayou
Bazaar,n., Alt. of Bazar
Beachy,a., Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches; shingly.
Beacon,n., A signal fire to notify of the approach of an enemy, or to give any notice, commonly of warning. 
Beaded,imp. & p. p., of Bead
Beadle,v., A messenger or crier of a court; a servitor; one who cites or bids persons to appear and answer; -- called also an apparitor or summoner.
Beagle,n., A small hound, or hunting dog, twelve to fifteen inches high, used in hunting hares and other small game. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Beaked,a., Having a beak or a beaklike point; beak-shaped.
Beaker,n., A large drinking cup, with a wide mouth, supported on a foot or standard. 
Bealed,imp. & p. p., of Beal
Beamed,imp. & p. p., of Beam
Bearer,n., One who, or that which, bears, sustains, or carries. 
Beaten,, of Beat
Beater,n., One who, or that which, beats. 
Beauty,n., An assemblage or graces or properties pleasing to the eye, the ear, the intellect, the aesthetic faculty, or the moral sense. 
Beaver,n., An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor. 
Beblot,v. t., To blot; to stain.
Becalm,v. t., To render calm or quiet; to calm; to still; to appease.
Became,, imp. of Become.
Becard,n., A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra inquisetor
Bechic,, Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough. 
Becked,imp. & p. p., of Beck
Becker,n., A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus
Becket,n., A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope / metal for holding things in position, as spars, ropes, etc.; also a bracket, a pocket, or a handle made of rope. 
Beckon,v. t., To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion of the hand. 
Beclap,v. t., To catch; to grasp; to insnare.
Beclip,v. t., To embrace; to surround.
Became,imp., of Become
Become,p. p., of Become
Becuna,n., A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyraena spet
Becurl,v. t., To curl; to adorn with curls.
Bedded,imp. & p. p., of Bed
Bedaff,v. t., To make a daff or fool of.
Bedash,v. t., To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to bespatter.
Bedaub,v. t., To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.
Bedbug,n., A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex Lectularius
Bedded,a., Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged in a bed or beds. 
Bedeck,v. t., To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace. 
Bedell,n., Same as Beadle.
Bedewy,a., Moist with dew; dewy.
Bedkey,n., An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.
Bedlam,n., A place appropriated to the confinement and care of the insane; a madhouse.
Bedote,v. t., To cause to dote; to deceive.
Bedpan,n., A pan for warming beds.
Bedrid,v. i., Alt. of Bedridden
Bedrop,v. t., To sprinkle, as with drops. 
Bedrug,v. t., To drug abundantly or excessively.
Beduck,v. t., To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse.
Beduin,n., See Bedouin.
Bedung,v. t., To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile, literally or figuratively. 
Bedust,v. t., To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. 
Bedyed,imp. & p. p., of Bedye
Beechy,a., Of or relating to beeches.
Beetle,v. t., A heavy mallet, used to drive wedges, beat pavements, etc. 
Beeves,n., plural of Beef, the animal. 
Befell,imp., of Befall
Befall,v. t., To happen to.
Befool,v. t., To fool; to delude or lead into error; to infatuate; to deceive.
Before,prep., In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before the house. 
Befoul,a., To make foul; to soil.
Begged,imp. & p. p., of Beg
Beggar,n., One who begs; one who asks or entreats earnestly, or with humility; a petitioner. 
Begilt,, of Begild
Begild,v. t., To gild.
Begirt,imp., of Begird
Begird,v. t., To bind with a band or girdle; to gird.
Begirt,v. t., To encompass; to begird.
Begnaw,v. t., To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.
Begone,interj., Go away; depart; get you gone.
Begore,v. t., To besmear with gore.
Beguin,n., See Beghard.
Behalf,n., Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication.
Behave,v. t., To manage or govern in point of behavior; to discipline; to handle; to restrain.
Behead,v. t., To sever the head from; to take off the head of.
Beheld,, imp. & p. p. of Behold.
Behest,n., That which is willed or ordered; a command; a mandate; an injunction.
Behete,v. t., See Behight.
Behind,a., On the side opposite the front or nearest part; on the back side of; at the back of; on the other side of; as, behind a door; behind a hill. 
Beheld,imp. & p. p., of Behold
Behold,v. t., To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with the eyes.
Behoof,v. t., Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.
Behove,v., and derivatives. See Behoove, &c. 
Behowl,v. t., To howl at.
Bejade,v. t., To jade or tire.
Bejape,v. t., To jape; to laugh at; to deceive.
Beknow,v. t., To confess; to acknowledge.
Belace,v. t., To fasten, as with a lace or cord. 
Belamy,n., Good friend; dear friend.
Belate,v. t., To retard or make too late.
Belaud,v. t., To laud or praise greatly.
Belaid,imp. & p. p., of Belay
Beldam,n., Alt. of Beldame
Beleft,imp. & p. p., of Beleave
Belfry,n., A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense.
Belgic,a., Of or pertaining to the Belgae, a German tribe who anciently possessed the country between the Rhine, the Seine, and the ocean. 
Belial,n., An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the personification of evil.
Belied,imp. & p. p., of Belie
Belief,n., Assent to a proposition or affirmation, or the acceptance of a fact, opinion, or assertion as real or true, without immediate personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony; partial or full assurance without positive knowledge or absolute certainty; persuasion; conviction; confidence; as, belief of a witness; the belief of our senses. 
Belike,adv., It is likely or probably; perhaps.
Belime,v. t., To besmear or insnare with birdlime.
Belive,a., Forthwith; speedily; quickly.
Belled,imp. & p. p., of Bell
Bellic,a., Alt. of Bellical
Bellon,n., Lead colic.
Bellow,v., To make a hollow, loud noise, as an enraged bull. 
Belock,v. t., To lock, or fasten as with a lock. 
Belong,v. i., To be the property of; as, Jamaica belongs to Great Britain. 
Belord,v. t., To act the lord over.
Belove,v. t., To love.
Belowt,v. t., To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to.
Belted,imp. & p. p., of Belt
Beltin,n., See Beltane.
Beluga,n., A cetacean allied to the dolphins.
Belute,v. t., To bespatter, as with mud. 
Bemask,v. t., To mask; to conceal.
Bemaul,v. t., To maul or beat severely; to bruise.
Bemaze,v. t., To bewilder.
Bemean,v. t., To make mean; to lower.
Bemeet,v. t., To meet.
Bemete,v. t., To mete.
Bemire,v. t., To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by passing through mud or dirt. 
Bemist,v. t., To envelop in mist.
Bemoan,v. t., To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.
Bemock,v. t., To mock; to ridicule.
Bemoil,v. t., To soil or encumber with mire and dirt.
Bemuse,v. t., To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor. 
Bename,v. t., To promise; to name.
Bended,imp. & p. p., of Bend
Bender,n., One who, or that which, bends. 
Beneme,v. t., To deprive (of
Bengal,n., A province in India, giving its name to various stuffs, animals, etc. 
Benign,a., Of a kind or gentle disposition; gracious; generous; favorable; benignant.
Bennet,a., The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum
Benumb,a., To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold. 
Benzal,n., A compound radical, C6H5.CH, of the aromatic series, related to benzyl and benzoyl; -- used adjectively or in combination. 
Benzol,n., An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for various other purposes. See Benzene. 
Benzyl,n., A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic acid; -- commonly used adjectively. 
Bepelt,v. t., To pelt roundly.
Berain,v. t., To rain upon; to wet with rain.
Berate,v. t., To rate or chide vehemently; to scold.
Berber,n., A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, and who still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles. Also, the language spoken by this people. 
Bereft,, of Bereave
Berime,v. t., To berhyme.
Berlin,n., A four-wheeled carriage, having a sheltered seat behind the body and separate from it, invented in the 17th century, at Berlin. 
Bertha,n., A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.
Besant,n., See Bezant.
Beseek,v. t., To beseech.
Beseem,v. t., Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.
Beseen,a., Seen; appearing.
Beshow,n., A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria
Beshut,v. t., To shut up or out.
Beside,n., At the side of; on one side of.
Besmut,v. t., To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.
Besnow,v. t., To scatter like snow; to cover thick, as with snow flakes. 
Besort,v. t., To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become. 
Bespew,v. t., To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.
Bespit,imp., of Bespit
Bespot,v. t., To mark with spots, or as with spots. 
Bestad,imp. & p. p., Beset; put in peril.
Bestar,v. t., To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as with, stars; to bestud. 
Bested,, of Bestead
Bestad,, of Bestead
Bestir,v. t., To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.
Bestow,v. t., To lay up in store; to deposit for safe keeping; to stow; to place; to put.
Bestud,v. t., To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to stud; as, to bestud with stars. 
Betted,, of Bet
Betook,imp., of Betake
Betake,v. t., To take or seize.
Beteem,a., To give ; to bestow; to grant; to accord; to consent.
Bethel,n., A place of worship; a hallowed spot.
Betide,v. t., To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide the wanderer. 
Betime,adv., Alt. of Betimes
Betony,n., A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.
Betook,, imp. of Betake.
Betorn,a., Torn in pieces; tattered.
Betoss,v. t., To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss.
Betrap,v. t., To draw into, or catch in, a trap; to insnare; to circumvent. 
Betray,v. t., To deliver into the hands of an enemy by treachery or fraud, in violation of trust; to give up treacherously or faithlessly; as, an officer betrayed the city. 
Betrim,v. t., To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim. 
Better,a., Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air. 
Bettor,n., One who bets; a better.
Beurre,n., A beurre (or buttery
Bevile,n., A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel.
Bevies,pl. , of Bevy
Bewail,v. t., To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail over. 
Bewake,v. t. & i., To keep watch over; to keep awake.
Beware,v. i., To be on one's guard; to be cautious; to take care; -- commonly followed by of or lest before the thing that is to be avoided.
Bewash,v. t., To drench or souse with water.
Bewept,imp. & p. p., of Beweep
Beweep,v. t., To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears.
Bewrap,v. t., To wrap up; to cover.
Bewray,v. t., To soil. See Beray.
Beylic,n., The territory ruled by a bey.
Beyond,prep., On the further side of; in the same direction as, and further on or away than. 
Bezant,n., A gold coin of Byzantium or Constantinople, varying in weight and value, usually (those current in England
Bezoar,n., A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian llama
Bezzle,v. t., To plunder; to waste in riot.
Biacid,a., Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid.
Biases,pl. , of Bias
Biased,imp. & p. p., of Bias
Biaxal,a., Alt. of Biaxial
Bibber,n., One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber. 
Bibler,v. t., A great drinker; a tippler.
Biceps,n., A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh. 
Bichir,n., A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir
Bicker,n., A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub. 
Bicorn,a., Alt. of Bicornous
Bidden,p. p., of Bid
Bidale,n., An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house, and there to contribute in charity for his relief. 
Bidden,, p. p. of Bid.
Bidder,n., One who bids or offers a price.
Biding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bide
Bident,n., An instrument or weapon with two prongs.
Biding,n., Residence; habitation.
Biffin,n., A sort of apple peculiar to Norfolk, Eng. 
Bifold,a., Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. 
Biform,a., Having two forms, bodies, or shapes. 
Biforn,prep. & adv., Before.
Bigamy,n., The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another.
Bigeye,n., A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size of the eye. 
Biggen,v. t. & i., To make or become big; to enlarge.
Bigger,a., compar. of Big.
Biggin,n., A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head. 
Biggon,n., Alt. of Biggonnet
Bigwig,a., A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society. 
Bijoux,pl. , of Bijou
Bilalo,n., A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of Manila. 
Biland,n., A byland.
Bilged,imp. & p. p., of Bilge
Bilked,imp. & p. p., of Bilk
Billed,imp. & p. p., of Bill
Billet,n., A small paper; a note; a short letter.
Billon,n., An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage. 
Billot,n., Bullion in the bar or mass.
Billow,n., A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by violent wind. 
Bimana,n. pl., Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as a special order of Mammalia.
Binned,imp. & p. p., of Bin
Binary,a., Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized by two (things
Binate,a., Double; growing in pairs or couples.
Binder,n., One who binds; as, a binder of sheaves; one whose trade is to bind; as, a binder of books. 
Binous,a., Same as Binate.
Biogen,n., Bioplasm.
Biotic,a., Relating to life; as, the biotic principle. 
Bipont,a., Alt. of Bipontine
Birder,n., A birdcatcher.
Birdie,n., A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name.
Bird's,n., Alt. of Bird's-nest
Bireme,n., An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.
Birken,v. t., To whip with a birch or rod.
Birkie,n., A lively or mettlesome fellow.
Birlaw,n., A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or local law or by-law.
Birred,imp. & p. p., of Birr
Birrus,n., A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or over the head. 
Bisect,v. t., To cut or divide into two parts.
Biseye,, p. p. of Besee.
Bishop,n., A spiritual overseer, superintendent, or director. 
Bismer,n., Shame; abuse.
Bisque,n., Unglazed white porcelain.
Bisson,a., Purblind; blinding.
Bister,n., Alt. of Bistre
Bistre,n., A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood.
Bitted,imp. & p. p., of Bit
Bitake,v. t., To commend; to commit.
Bitten,p. p., of Bite
Biting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bite
Bitten,, p. p. of Bite.
Bitter,n., AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts.
Bittor,n., The bittern.
Bitume,n., Bitumen.
Biuret,n., A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed by heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid. 
Bivial,a., Of or relating to the bivium.
Bivium,n., One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in distinction from the opposite side (trivium
Blacks,n. pl., The name of a kind of in used in copperplate printing, prepared from the charred husks of the grape, and residue of the wine press. 
Bladed,a., Having a blade or blades; as, a two-bladed knife. 
Blague,n., Mendacious boasting; falsehood; humbug.
Blamed,imp. & p. p., of Blame
Blamer,n., One who blames.
Blanch,a., To take the color out of, and make white; to bleach; as, to blanch linen; age has blanched his hair. 
Blared,imp. & p. p., of Blare
Blasty,a., Affected by blasts; gusty.
Blazed,imp. & p. p., of Blaze
Blazer,n., One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad.
Blazon,n., A shield.
Bleach,a., To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from; to blanch; to whiten. 
Bleaky,a., Bleak.
Bleary,a., Somewhat blear.
Blebby,a., Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass. 
Blench,v. i., To shrink; to start back; to draw back, from lack of courage or resolution; to flinch; to quail. 
Blende,n., A mineral, called also sphalerite, and by miners mock lead, false galena, and black-jack. It is a zinc sulphide, but often contains some iron. Its color is usually yellow, brown, or black, and its luster resinous. 
Blenny,n., A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidae; -- so called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.
Bleyme,n., An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and the bone. 
Blight,v. t., To affect with blight; to blast; to prevent the growth and fertility of.
Blimbi,n., Alt. of Blimbing
Blinde,n., See Blende.
Blithe,a., Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe spirit. 
Blonde,v. t., Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion. 
Bloody,a., Containing or resembling blood; of the nature of blood; as, bloody excretions; bloody sweat. 
Bloomy,a., Full of bloom; flowery; flourishing with the vigor of youth; as, a bloomy spray. 
Blooth,n., Bloom; a blossoming.
Blosmy,a., Blossomy.
Blotch,a., A blot or spot, as of color or of ink; especially a large or irregular spot. Also Fig.; as, a moral blotch. 
Bloted,imp. & p. p., of Blote
Blouse,n., A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army. 
Blowen,n., Alt. of Blowess
Blower,n., One who, or that which, blows. 
Blowse,n., See Blowze.
Blowth,n., A blossoming; a bloom.
Blowze,n., A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. 
Blowzy,a., Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.
Bluing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Blue
Bluely,adv., With a blue color.
Bluets,a., A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium. 
Bluffy,a., Having bluffs, or bold, steep banks. 
Bluing,n., The act of rendering blue; as, the bluing of steel. 
Bluish,a., Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. 
Blunge,v. t., To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay. 
Blurry,a., Full of blurs; blurred.
Blushy,a., Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy.
Boated,imp. & p. p., of Boat
Bobbed,imp. & p. p., of Bob
Bobber,n., One who, or that which, bobs. 
Bobbin,n., A small pin, or cylinder, formerly of bone, now most commonly of wood, used in the making of pillow lace. Each thread is wound on a separate bobbin which hangs down holding the thread at a slight tension. 
Bobfly,n., The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly.
Bockey,n., A bowl or vessel made from a gourd.
Boding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bode
Bodged,imp. & p. p., of Bodge
Bodian,n., A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum
Bodice,n., A kind of under waist stiffened with whalebone, etc., worn esp. by women; a corset; stays. 
Bodied,a., Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied. 
Bodily,a., Having a body or material form; physical; corporeal; consisting of matter.
Boding,a., Foreshowing; presaging; ominous.
Bodkin,n., A dagger.
Bodock,n., The Osage orange.
Bodies,pl. , of Body
Bodied,imp. & p. p., of Body
Bogged,imp. & p. p., of Bog
Boggle,n., To stop or hesitate as if suddenly frightened, or in doubt, or impeded by unforeseen difficulties; to take alarm; to exhibit hesitancy and indecision. 
Bogies,pl. , of Bogy
Boiled,imp. & p. p., of Boil
Boiler,n., One who boils.
Bolden,v. t., To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.
Boldly,adv., In a bold manner.
Bolero,n., A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it. 
bolete,n., any fungus of the family Boletaceae.
Bolide,n., A kind of bright meteor; a bolis.
Bolled,imp. & p. p., of Boll
Bollen,a., See Boln, a. 
Bolted,imp. & p. p., of Bolt
Boltel,n., See Boultel.
Bolter,n., One who bolts; esp.: (a
Bombax,n., A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a tree of the genus Bombax. 
Bombic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid. 
Bombyx,n., A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. See Silkworm. 
Bonair,a., Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding.
Bonbon,n., Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty. 
Bonded,imp. & p. p., of Bond
Bondar,n., A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar
Bonded,a., Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment of duties, or for conformity to certain regulations. 
Bonder,n., One who places goods under bond or in a bonded warehouse.
Bonduc,n., See Nicker tree.
Boning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bone
Bonify,v. t., To convert into, or make, good. 
Boning,n., The clearing of bones from fish or meat.
Bonito,n., A large tropical fish (Orcynus pelamys
Bonmot,n., A witty repartee; a jest.
Bonnes,pl. , of Bonne bouche
Bonnet,n., A headdress for men and boys; a cap.
Bonnie,a., See Bonny, a. 
Boodle,n., The whole collection or lot; caboodle.
Boohoe,v. i., To bawl; to cry loudly.
Boohoo,n., The sailfish; -- called also woohoo.
Booked,imp. & p. p., of Book
Booker,n., One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper. 
Boomed,imp. & p. p., of Boom
Boomer,n., One who, or that which, booms. 
Booser,n., A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer.
Booted,imp. & p. p., of Boot
Bootee,n., A half boot or short boot.
Bootes,n., A northern constellation, containing the bright star Arcturus. 
Boothy,n., See Bothy.
Boozed,imp. & p. p., of Booze
Boozer,n., One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; a bouser.
Bopeep,n., The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so as to startle some one (as by children in play
Borage,n., A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis
Borate,n., A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base or positive radical.
Bordar,n., A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; a cottier.
Bordel,n., Alt. of Bordello
Border,n., The outer part or edge of anything, as of a garment, a garden, etc.; margin; verge; brink. 
Boring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bore
Boreal,a., Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, a boreal bird; a boreal blast. 
Boreas,n., The north wind; -- usually a personification.
Borele,n., The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodus bicornis
Boride,n., A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basic element or radical; -- formerly called boruret.
Boring,n., The act or process of one who, or that which, bores; as, the boring of cannon; the boring of piles and ship timbers by certain marine mollusks. 
Borrel,n., Coarse woolen cloth; hence, coarse clothing; a garment. 
Borrow,v. t., To receive from another as a loan, with the implied or expressed intention of returning the identical article or its equivalent in kind; -- the opposite of lend. 
Boshes,pl. , of Bosh
Bosket,n., Alt. of Bosquet
Bosomy,a., Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows.
Bosses,pl. , of Boss
Bossed,imp. & p. p., of Boss
Bosset,n., A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer.
Boston,n., A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the French army in America during the Revolutionary war. 
Botany,a. & n., The science which treats of the structure of plants, the functions of their parts, their places of growth, their classification, and the terms which are employed in their description and denomination. See Plant. 
Botchy,a., Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done.
Botfly,n., A dipterous insect of the family (Estridae, of many different species, some of which are particularly troublesome to domestic animals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit their eggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse (Gastrophilus equi
Bother,v. t., To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.
Bothie,n., Same as Bothy.
Boothy,n., A wooden hut or humble cot, esp. a rude hut or barrack for unmarried farm servants; a shepherd's or hunter's hut; a booth. 
Bottle,n., A hollow vessel, usually of glass or earthenware (but formerly of leather
Bottom,n., The lowest part of anything; the foot; as, the bottom of a tree or well; the bottom of a hill, a lane, or a page. 
Bouche,n., Same as Bush, a lining. 
Bouffe,n., Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe.
Bouged,imp. & p. p., of Bouge
Bouget,n., A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; -- also called water bouget.
Bought,n., A flexure; a bend; a twist; a turn; a coil, as in a rope; as the boughts of a serpent. 
Bougie,n., A long, flexible instrument, that is 
Bounce,v. i., To strike or thump, so as to rebound, or to make a sudden noise; a knock loudly. 
Bounty,n., Goodness, kindness; virtue; worth. 
Bourne,v., A stream or rivulet; a burn.
Bourse,n., An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet for business at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris. 
Bouser,n., A toper; a boozer.
Bovate,n., An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres. 
Bovine,a., Of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling, the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope. 
Bowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Bow
Bowery,a., Shading, like a bower; full of bowers. 
Bowess,n., Same as Bower.
Bowfin,n., A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva
Bowing,n., The act or art of managing the bow in playing on stringed instruments.
Bowled,imp. & p. p., of Bowl
Bowleg,n., A crooked leg.
Bowler,n., One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or any other game. 
Bowmen,pl. , of Bowman
Bowman,n., A man who uses a bow; an archer.
Bowtel,n., See Boultel.
Bowwow,n., An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.
Bowyer,n., An archer; one who uses bow.
Boxing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Box
Boyard,n., A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great. Also, one of a privileged class in Roumania. 
Boyaux,pl. , of Boyau
Boyaus,pl. , of Boyau
Boyish,a., Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile.
Boyism,n., Boyhood.
Braced,imp. & p. p., of Brace
Bracer,n., That which braces, binds, or makes firm; a band or bandage. 
Bracky,a., Brackish.
Bragly,adv., In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly.
Brahma,n., The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. The triad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer. 
Brainy,a., Having an active or vigorous mind.
Braise,n., Alt. of Braize
Braize,n., A European marine fish (Pagrus vulgaris
Braise,n., Alt. of Braize
Braize,n., Charcoal powder; breeze.
Braise,v. t., To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan.
Braize,n., See Braise.
Bramah,, A hydrostatic press of immense power, invented by Joseph Bramah of London. See under Hydrostatic. 
Bramin,, Alt. of Braminic
Branch,n., A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant. 
Brandy,n., A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is also given to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the United States to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe, it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain. 
Branks,n., A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces.
Branny,a., Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing bran.
Brasen,a., Same as Brazen.
Brasse,n., A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a perch. 
Brassy,a., Of or pertaining to brass; having the nature, appearance, or hardness, of brass. 
Braved,imp. & p. p., of Brave
Brawny,a., Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. 
Brayed,imp. & p. p., of Bray
Brayer,n., An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.
Brazed,imp. & p. p., of Braze
Brazen,a., Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, brass. 
Brazil,, An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa; the cream nut. 
Breach,n., The act of breaking, in a figurative sense. 
Broken,p. p., of Break
Breast,n., The fore part of the body, between the neck and the belly; the chest; as, the breast of a man or of a horse. 
Breath,n., The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration; air which, in the process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc. 
Breede,n., Breadth.
Breech,n., The lower part of the body behind; the buttocks.
Breeze,n., Alt. of Breeze fly
Breezy,a., Characterized by, or having, breezes; airy. 
Bregma,n., The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of the skull.
Brehon,n., An ancient Irish or Scotch judge.
Brenne,v. t. & i., To burn.
Breast,n., A torus.
Breste,v. t. & i., To burst.
Breton,a., Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France. 
Brevet,n., A warrant from the government, granting a privilege, title, or dignity. [French usage]. 
Brewed,imp. & p. p., of Brew
Brewer,n., One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.
Brewis,n., Broth or pottage.
Bribed,imp. & p. p., of Bribe
Briber,n., A thief.
Bricky,a., Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick dust.
Bridal,n., Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber. 
Bridge,n., A structure, usually of wood, stone, brick, or iron, erected over a river or other water course, or over a chasm, railroad, etc., to make a passageway from one bank to the other. 
Bridle,n., The head gear with which a horse is governed and restrained, consisting of a headstall, a bit, and reins, with other appendages. 
Briery,a., Full of briers; thorny.
Brigge,n., A bridge.
Bright,v. i., See Brite, v. i. 
Brigue,n., A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel. 
Brills,n. pl., The hair on the eyelids of a horse.
Briony,n., See Bryony.
Bright,v. t., To be or become overripe, as wheat, barley, or hops. 
Briton,a., British.
Broach,n., A spit.
Broche,a., Woven with a figure; as, broche goods. 
Brogan,n., A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue. 
Brogue,n., A stout, coarse shoe; a brogan. 
Broken,v. t., Separated into parts or pieces by violence; divided into fragments; as, a broken chain or rope; a broken dish. 
Broker,v. t., One who transacts business for another; an agent.
Bromal,n., An oily, colorless fluid, CBr3.COH, related to bromoform, as chloral is to chloroform, and obtained by the action of bromine on alcohol. 
Bromic,a., Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid. 
Bronco,n., Same as Broncho.
Bronze,a., An alloy of copper and tin, to which small proportions of other metals, especially zinc, are sometimes added. It is hard and sonorous, and is used for statues, bells, cannon, etc., the proportions of the ingredients being varied to suit the particular purposes. The varieties containing the higher proportions of tin are brittle, as in bell metal and speculum metal. 
Bronzy,a., Like bronze.
Brooch,n., An ornament, in various forms, with a tongue, pin, or loop for attaching it to a garment; now worn at the breast by women; a breastpin. Formerly worn by men on the hat. 
Broody,a., Inclined to brood.
Broomy,a., Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resembling broom or a broom.
Brotel,a., Brittle.
Browed,a., Having (such
Browny,a., Brown or, somewhat brown. 
Browse,n., The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food. 
Bruang,n., The Malayan sun bear.
Bruise,v. t., To injure, as by a blow or collision, without laceration; to contuse; as, to bruise one's finger with a hammer; to bruise the bark of a tree with a stone; to bruise an apple by letting it fall. 
Brumal,a., Of or pertaining to winter.
Brushy,a., Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough.
Brutal,a., Of or pertaining to a brute; as, brutal nature. 
Bryony,n., The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony
Bubale,n., A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis
Bubble,n., A thin film of liquid inflated with air or gas; as, a soap bubble; bubbles on the surface of a river. 
Bubbly,a., Abounding in bubbles; bubbling.
Buboes,pl. , of Bubo
Buccal,a., Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.
Bucked,imp. & p. p., of Buck
Bucker,n., One who bucks ore.
Bucket,n., A vessel for drawing up water from a well, or for catching, holding, or carrying water, sap, or other liquids. 
Buckie,n., A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See Buccinum. 
Buckle,n., A device, usually of metal, consisting of a frame with one more movable tongues or catches, used for fastening things together, as parts of dress or harness, by means of a strap passing through the frame and pierced by the tongue. 
Buckra,n., A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast, West Indies, etc. 
Budded,imp. & p. p., of Bud
Buddha,n., The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni
Buddle,n., An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of running water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions. 
Budged,imp. & p. p., of Budge
Budger,n., One who budges.
Budget,n., A bag or sack with its contents; hence, a stock or store; an accumulation; as, a budget of inventions. 
Budlet,n., A little bud springing from a parent bud.
Buffel,, A small duck (Charitonetta albeola
Buffer,n., An elastic apparatus or fender, for deadening the jar caused by the collision of bodies; as, a buffer at the end of a railroad car. 
Buffet,n., A cupboard or set of shelves, either movable or fixed at one side of a room, for the display of plate, china, etc., a sideboard. 
Buffin,n., A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns. 
Buffle,n., The buffalo.
Bugger,n., One guilty of buggery or unnatural vice; a sodomite.
Bugled,a., Ornamented with bugles.
Bugler,n., One who plays on a bugle.
Bulbar,a., Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar paralysis. 
Bulbed,a., Having a bulb; round-headed.
Bulbel,n., A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.
Bulbul,n., The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus
Bulged,imp. & p. p., of Bulge
Bulimy,n., A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite for food; a diseased and voracious appetite.
Bulked,imp. & p. p., of Bulk
Bulker,n., A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them. 
Bullae,pl. , of Bulla
Bulled,a., Swollen.
Bullet,n., A small ball.
Bullon,n., A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis
Bultel,n., A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran. 
Bultow,n., A trawl; a boulter; the mode of fishing with a boulter or spiller.
Bummed,imp. & p. p., of Bum
Bumble,n., The bittern.
Bumkin,n., A projecting beam or boom; as: (a
Bummer,n., An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of support; a dissipated sponger. 
Bumped,imp. & p. p., of Bump
Bumper,n., A cup or glass filled to the brim, or till the liquor runs over, particularly in drinking a health or toast. 
Bunchy,a., Swelling out in bunches.
Bunkum,n., Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said for mere show. 
Bunder,n., A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of passengers and goods.
Bundle,n., A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope, into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old clothes. 
Bunged,imp. & p. p., of Bung
Bungle,v. i., To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner. 
Bunion,n., Same as Bunyon.
Bunked,imp. & p. p., of Bunk
Bunker,n., A sort of chest or box, as in a window, the lid of which serves for a seat. 
Bunkum,n., See Buncombe.
Bunter,n., A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar woman. 
Bunyon,n., Alt. of Bunion
Bunion,n., An enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one of the bursae muscosae
Buoyed,imp. & p. p., of Buoy
Burbot,n., A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin. 
Burden,n., That which is borne or carried; a load.
Burdon,n., A pilgrim's staff.
Bureau,n., Originally, a desk or writing table with drawers for papers. 
Burgee,n., A kind of small coat.
Burgoo,n., A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen. 
Burhel,n., Alt. of Burrhel
Burial,n., A grave; a tomb; a place of sepulture.
Burier,n., One who, or that which, buries. 
Burion,n., The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus frontalis
Burked,imp. & p. p., of Burke
Burled,imp. & p. p., of Burl
Burlap,n., A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also, a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc. 
Burler,n., One who burls or dresses cloth.
Burman,n., A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese. 
Burned,imp. & p. p., of Burn
Burner,n., One who, or that which, burns or sets fire to anything. 
Burnet,n., A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium
Burnie,n., A small brook.
Burred,imp. & p. p., of Burr
Burrel,n., A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its smooth, delicious, soft pulp. 
Burrow,n., An incorporated town. See 1st Borough.
Bursae,pl. , of Bursa
Bursal,a., Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursae.
Bursar,n., A treasurer, or cash keeper; a purser; as, the bursar of a college, or of a monastery. 
Bursch,n., A youth; especially, a student in a german university. 
Burton,n., A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys, the weight being suspended to a hook block in the bight of the running part. 
Buried,imp. & p. p., of Bury
Buscon,n., One who searches for ores; a prospector.
Bushed,imp. & p. p., of Bush
Bushel,n., A dry measure, containing four pecks, eight gallons, or thirty-two quarts. 
Bushet,n., A small bush.
Busily,adv., In a busy manner.
Busked,imp. & p. p., of Busk
Busket,n., A small bush; also, a sprig or bouquet. 
Buskin,n., A strong, protecting covering for the foot, coming some distance up the leg. 
Bussed,imp. & p. p., of Buss
Buster,n., Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree. 
Bustle,v. i., To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd. 
Busied,imp. & p. p., of Busy
Butted,imp. & p. p., of But
Butane,n., An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or paraffin, series. 
Butler,n., An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.; the head servant in a large house. 
Butted,imp. & p. p., of Butt
Butter,n., An oily, unctuous substance obtained from cream or milk by churning. 
Button,n., A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass. 
Buxine,n., An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box tree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina. 
Bought,imp. & p. p., of Buy
Buying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Buy
Buzzed,imp. & p. p., of Buzz
Buzzer,n., One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer. 
Bygone,a., Past; gone by.
Byland,n., A peninsula.
Byname,v. t., To give a nickname to.
Bypath,n., A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.
Byplay,n., Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds. 
Byroad,n., A private or obscure road.
Byssin,n., See Byssus, n., 1. 
Byssus,n., A cloth of exceedingly fine texture, used by the ancients. It is disputed whether it was of cotton, linen, or silk. 
Byword,n., A common saying; a proverb; a saying that has a general currency.
Bywork,n., Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business.
Byzant,n., Alt. of Byzantine
Cabala,n., A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediaeval Christians, which treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It assumes that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to foretell events by this means. 
Cabeca,n., Alt. of Cabesse
Cabiai,n., The capybara. See Capybara.
Cabled,imp. & p. p., of Cable
Cablet,n., A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.
Cabmen,pl. , of Cabman
Cabman,n., The driver of a cab.
Cabree,n., The pronghorn antelope.
Cabrit,n., Same as Cabree.
Caburn,n., A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc. 
Cachet,n., A seal, as of a letter. 
Cachou,n., A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath. 
Cackle,v. i., To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does. 
Cacoon,n., One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens
Cactus,n., Any plant of the order Cactacae, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America. 
Caddis,n., The larva of a caddice fly. These larvae generally live in cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm. 
Caddow,n., A jackdaw.
Cadene,n., A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.
Cadent,a., Falling.
Cadged,imp. & p. p., of Cadge
Cadger,v. t., A packman or itinerant huckster.
Caddie,n., A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger. 
Cadmia,n., An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.
Cadmic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide. 
Caduke,a., Perishable; frail; transitory.
Caecal,a., Of or pertaining to the caecum, or blind gut. 
Caecum,n., A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct. 
Caesar,n., A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Caesar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar. 
Caffre,n., See Kaffir.
Cafila,n., Alt. of Cafileh
Caftan,n., A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a belt or sash. 
Caging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cage
Cagmag,n., A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. 
Cahier,n., A number of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the successive portions of a work printed in numbers.
Cahoot,n., Partnership; as, to go in cahoot with a person. 
Caiman,n., See Cayman.
Caique,n., A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size. 
Cajole,v. i., To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
Caking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cake
Calade,n., A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches. 
Calami,pl. , of Calamus
Calash,n., A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver, and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open or a close carriage. 
Calcar,n., A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. 
Calced,a., Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.
Calces,n. pl., See Calx.
Calcic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime. 
Calefy,v. i., To make warm or hot.
Calves,pl. , of Calf
Calice,n., See Chalice.
Calico,n., Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc. 
Caligo,n., Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself. 
Caliph,n., Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey. 
Calked,imp. &p. p., of Calk
Calker,n., One who calks.
Calkin,n., A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1. 
Called,imp. & p. p., of Call
Callat,n., Same as Callet.
Caller,n., One who calls.
Callet,n., A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip.
Callid,a., Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty.
Callot,n., A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte.
Callow,a., Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.
Callus,n., Same as Callosity
Calmed,imp. & p. p., of Calm
Calmer,n., One who, or that which, makes calm. 
Calmly,adv., In a calm manner.
Callot,n., A close cap without visor or brim.
Calque,v. t., See 2d Calk, v. t. 
Calved,imp. & p. p., of Calve
Calver,v. i., To cut in slices and pickle, as salmon. 
Calxes,pl. , of Calx
Calces,pl. , of Calx
Calyon,n., Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. 
Camail,n., A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece. 
Camass,n., A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta
Camber,n., An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck
Cameos,pl. , of Cameo
Camera,n., A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura. 
Camlet,n., A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. 
Cammas,n., See Camass.
Camous,a., Alt. of Camoys
Camoys,a., Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose.
Camped,imp. & p. p., of Camp
Camper,n., One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.
Campus,n., The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus. 
Canned,imp. & p. p., of Can
Ca?ada,n., A small ca?on; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley. 
Canada,n., A British province in North America, giving its name to various plants and animals. 
Canard,n., An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public.
Canary,a., Of or pertaining to the Canary Islands; as, canary wine; canary birds. 
Cancan,n., A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures. 
Cancel,v. i., To inclose or surround, as with a railing, or with latticework. 
Cancer,n., A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab. 
Candid,a., White.
Candle,n., A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish light. 
Candor,n., Whiteness; brightness; (as applied to moral conditions
Caning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cane
Canine,a., Of or pertaining to the family Canidae, or dogs and wolves; having the nature or qualities of a dog; like that or those of a dog. 
Canker,n., A corroding or sloughing ulcer; esp. a spreading gangrenous ulcer or collection of ulcers in or about the mouth; -- called also water canker, canker of the mouth, and noma. 
Cannel,, A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles. 
Cannon,pl. , of Cannon
Cannot,, Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two. 
Cannei,a., Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.
Canoes,pl. , of Canoe
Canoed,imp. & p. p., of Canoe
Canopy,n., A covering fixed over a bed, dais, or the like, or carried on poles over an exalted personage or a sacred object, etc. chiefly as a mark of honor. 
Canted,imp. & p. p., of Cant
Cantab,n., A Cantabrigian.
Cantar,n., Alt. of Cantarro
Canted,a., Having angles; as, a six canted bolt head; a canted window. 
Cantel,n., See Cantle.
Canter,n., A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.
Canthi,pl. , of Canthus
Cantle,n., A corner or edge of anything; a piece; a fragment; a part.
Cantos,pl. , of Canto
Canton,n., A song or canto
Cantor,n., A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.
Canuck,n., A Canadian.
Canula,a., Alt. of Canulated
Canvas,n., A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents, sails, etc. 
Canyon,n., The English form of the Spanish word Ca?on.
Capped,imp. & p. p., of Cap
Capape,adv., See Cap-a-pie.
Capful,n., As much as will fill a cap.
Capias,n., A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias. 
Capite,n., See under Tenant.
Capivi,n., A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.
Caplin,n., See Capelin.
Capoch,n., A hood; especially, the hood attached to the gown of a monk. 
Capote,n., A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood. 
Capper,n., One whose business is to make or sell caps.
Capric,a., Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives.
Caprid,a., Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat, or genus Capra, is the type. 
Captor,n., One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize. 
Capita,pl. , of Caput
Carack,n., A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon.
Carafe,n., A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also croft.
Caranx,n., A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the yellow or golden mackerel. 
Carbon,n., An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is present in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. it is combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, and enters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state it constitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring in monometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification is graphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs in hexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbon dioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, according to the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it forms various compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite. 
Carboy,n., A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass, inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc. 
Carcel,, A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which a superabundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork. 
Carded,imp. & p. p., of Card
Carder,n., One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. 
Cardia,n., The heart.
Cardol,n., A yellow oily liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew nut. 
Caring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Care
Careen,v. t., To cause (a vessel
Career,n., A race course: the ground run over.
Carene,n., A fast of forty days on bread and water.
Caress,n., An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an embracing, or touching, with tenderness. 
Caries,pl. , of Carib
Caribe,n., A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of many species, remarkable for its voracity. When numerous they attack man or beast, often with fatal results. 
Caries,n., Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which it dies in masses. 
Carina,n., A keel
Carlin,n., An old woman.
Carlot,n., A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman.
Carman,n., A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a car or car. 
Carmot,n., The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be composed.
Carnal,a., Of or pertaining to the body or its appetites; animal; fleshly; sensual; given to sensual indulgence; lustful; human or worldly as opposed to spiritual.
Carney,n., A disease of horses, in which the mouth is so furred that the afflicted animal can not eat. 
Carnin,n., A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of meat, and related to xanthin. 
Carrol,n., A small closet or inclosure built against a window on the inner side, to sit in for study. The word was used as late as the 16th century. 
Caroli,pl. , of Carolus
Carped,imp. & p. p., of Carp
Carpal,a., Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist. 
Carpel,n., Alt. of Carpellum
Carper,n., One who carps; a caviler.
Carpet,n., A heavy woven or felted fabric, usually of wool, but also of cotton, hemp, straw, etc.; esp. a floor covering made in breadths to be sewed together and nailed to the floor, as distinguished from a rug or mat; originally, also, a wrought cover for tables. 
Carpus,n., The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows. 
Carrel,n., See Quarrel, an arrow. 
Carrol,n., See 4th Carol.
Carrom,n., See Carom.
Carron,, A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an application to burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works in Scotland. 
Carrot,n., An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota
Carrow,n., A strolling gamester.
Carryk,n., A carack.
Carted,imp. & p. p., of Cart
Quarte,n., A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of the hand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary's right breast. 
Cartes,pl. , of Carte de visite
Cartel,n., An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of prisoners.
Carter,n., A charioteer.
Carton,n., Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box. 
Carved,imp. & p. p., of Carve
Carvel,n., Same as Caravel.
Carven,a., Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved.
Carver,n., One who carves; one who shapes or fashions by carving, or as by carving; esp. one who carves decorative forms, architectural adornments, etc. 
Carvol,n., One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol. 
Casing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Case
Caseic,a., Of or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid. 
Casein,n., A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kingdom it is chiefly found in milk, and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin. 
Casern,n., A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks. 
Caseum,n., Same as Casein.
Cashed,imp. & p. p., of Cash
Casing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cash
Cashew,n., A tree (Anacardium occidentale
Cashoo,n., See Catechu.
Casing,n., The act or process of inclosing in, or covering with, a case or thin substance, as plaster, boards, etc. 
Casini,pl. , of Casino
Casino,n., A small country house.
Casket,n., A small chest or box, esp. of rich material or ornamental character, as for jewels, etc. 
Casque,n., A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a vizor
Cassia,n., A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees
Caster,n., One who casts; as, caster of stones, etc. ; a caster of cannon; a caster of accounts. 
Castle,n., A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a fortress. 
Castor,n., A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver. 
Casual,a., Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance. 
Caught,imp. & p. p., of Catch
Catsup,n., A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc. 
Catene,pl. , of Catena
Catena,n., A chain or series of things connected with each other.
Catery,n., The place where provisions are deposited.
Catgut,n., A cord of great toughness made from the intestines of animals, esp. of sheep, used for strings of musical instruments, etc. 
Cathay,n., China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.
Cation,n., An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion. 
Catkin,n., An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers
Catnip,n., Alt. of Catmint
Catsos,pl. , of Catso
Catsup,n., Same as Catchup, and Ketchup. 
Cattle,n. pl., Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and swine. 
Caucus,n., A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy; a political primary meeting. 
Caudad,adv., Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.
Caudal,a., Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like appendage. 
Caudex,n., The stem of a tree., esp. a stem without a branch, as of a palm or a tree fern; also, the perennial rootstock of an herbaceous plant. 
Caudle,n., A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices. 
Caufle,n., A gang of slaves. Same as Coffle.
Caught,, imp. & p. p. of Catch.
Cauker,n., See Cawk, Calker. 
Caules,pl. , of Caulis
Caulis,n., An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear flowers. 
Causal,a., Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative.
Caused,imp. & p. p., of Cause
Causer,n., One who or that which causes.
Causey,n., A way or road raised above the natural level of the ground, serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground. 
Cautel,n., Caution; prudence; wariness.
Cauter,n., A hot iron for searing or cauterizing.
Caving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cave
Caveat,n., A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveat entered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or the taking out of letters of administration, etc. 
Cavern,n., A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave. 
Caviar,n., The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a relish, esp. in Russia. 
Cavity,n., Hollowness.
Cavort,v. i., To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.
Cavies,pl. , of Cavy
Cawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Caw
Cawker,n., See Calker.
Caxton,n., Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer. 
Cayman,n., The south America alligator. See Alligator.
Cayuse,n., An Indian pony.
Ceased,imp. & p. p., of Cease
Cecity,n., Blindness.
Cedarn,a., Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood.
Ceding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cede
Cedrat,n., Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume. 
Cedule,n., A scroll; a writing; a schedule.
Ceiled,imp. & p. p., of Ceil
Celery,n., A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens
Celiac,a., See Coellac.
Celled,imp. & p. p., of Cell
Cellar,n., A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept. 
Celled,a., Containing a cell or cells.
Cellos,pl. , of Cello
Celtic,a., Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes, literature, tongue. 
Cement,n., Any substance used for making bodies adhere to each other, as mortar, glue, etc. 
Censed,imp. & p. p., of Cense
Censer,n., A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.
Censor,n., One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct. 
Census,n., A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years. 
Cental,n., A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight.
Center,n., A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place. 
Centre,v. i., To be placed in a center; to be central.
Center,v. t., Alt. of Centre
Centre,v. t., To place or fix in the center or on a central point.
Centos,pl. , of Cento
Centre,n. & v., See Center.
Centra,pl. , of Centrum
Centry,n., See Sentry.
Cerago,n., Beebread.
Cerate,n., An unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin. 
Cercal,a., Of or pertaining to the tail.
Cercus,n., See Cercopod.
Cering,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cere
Cereal,a., Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.
Cereus,n., A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of America, from California to Chili. 
Cerial,a., Same as Cerrial.
Ceriph,n., One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters. 
Cerise,a., Cherry-colored; a light bright red; -- applied to textile fabrics, especially silk. 
Cerite,n., A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiidae; -- so called from its hornlike form.
Cerium,n., A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite, allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air. 
Ceroma,n., The unguent (a composition of oil and wax
Ceroon,n., A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc. 
Cerote,n., See Cerate.
Cerris,n., A species of oak (Quercus cerris
Certes,adv., Certainly; in truth; verily.
Cerule,a., Blue; cerulean.
Ceruse,n., White lead, used as a pigment. See White lead, under White. 
Cervix,n., The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the womb. See Illust. of Bird. 
Cervus,n., A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied species. 
Cessed,imp. & p. p., of Cess
Cesser,v. i., a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years. 
Cessor,v. i., One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of cessavit. See Cessavit. 
Cestus,n., A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus
Cestuy,pron., Alt. of Cestui
Cestui,pron., He; the one.
Cesura,n., See Caesura.
Cetene,n., An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained from spermaceti. 
Chabuk,n., A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of punishment. 
Chacma,n., A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius
Chafed,imp. & p. p., of Chafe
Chafer,n., One who chafes.
Chaffy,a., Abounding in, or resembling, chaff. 
Chaise,n., A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the body hung on leather straps, or thorough-braces. It is usually drawn by one horse. 
Chalet,n., A herdsman's hut in the mountains of Switzerland.
Chalky,a., Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a chalky cliff; a chalky taste. 
Chalon,n., A bed blanket.
Chamal,n., The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora. 
Champe,n., The field or ground on which carving appears in relief.
Chance,n., A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often personified. 
Change,v. t., To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a thing; to change the countenance. 
Chaped,p. p. / a., Furnished with a chape or chapes.
Chapel,n., A subordinate place of worship
Chappy,, Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.
Charge,v. t., To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill. 
Charon,n., The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions. 
Charre,n., See Charge, n., 17. 
Charry,a., Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities. 
Charta,n., Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written; parchment or paper. 
Charte,n., The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814. 
Chased,imp. & p. p., of Chase
Chaser,n., One who or that which chases; a pursuer; a driver; a hunter.
Chasmy,a., Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms.
Chasse,n., A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left. 
Chaste,a., Pure from unlawful sexual intercourse; virtuous; continent.
Chatty,a., Given to light, familiar talk; talkative. 
Chaunt,n. & v., See Chant.
Chawed,imp. & p. p., of Chaw
Chebec,n., See Chebacco.
Checky,a., Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; -- said of the field or of an armorial bearing.
Cheeky,, a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold.
Cheese,n., The curd of milk, coagulated usually with rennet, separated from the whey, and pressed into a solid mass in a hoop or mold. 
Cheesy,a., Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or appearance of cheese. 
Chegoe,n., Alt. of Chegre
Chegre,n., See Chigoe.
Chelae,pl. , of Chela
Chemic,n., A chemist; an alchemist.
Cheque,n., See Check.
Chequy,n., Same as Checky.
Cherif,n., See Cherif.
Cherry,n., A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum
Cherty,a., Like chert; containing chert; flinty.
Cherub,n., A mysterious composite being, the winged footstool and chariot of the Almighty, described in Ezekiel i. and x. 
Cherup,v. i., To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup. 
Chessy,, The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy, near Lyons; called also chessylite. 
Chetah,n., See Cheetah.
Cheval,n., A horse; hence, a support or frame. 
Cheven,n., A river fish; the chub.
Chevet,n., The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or polygonal part.
Chewed,imp. & p. p., of Chew
Chewer,n., One who chews.
Chewet,n., A kind of meat pie.
Chiasm,n., Alt. of Chiasma
Chicha,n., See Chica.
Chicky,n., A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in calling fowls. 
Chider,n., One who chides or quarrels.
Chieve,v. i., See Cheve, v. i. 
Chiffo,n., Alt. of niere
Chigoe,n., Alt. of Chigre
Chigre,n., A species of flea (Pulex penetrans
Childe,n., A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son, until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as, Childe Roland. 
Chilli,n., See Chili.
Chilly,a., Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering; causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering. 
Chimed,imp. & p. p., of Chime
Chimer,n., One who chimes.
Chinch,n., The bedbug (Cimex lectularius
Chined,imp. & p. p., of Chine
Chinky,a., Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.
Chinse,v. t. & i., To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks
Chintz,n., Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a number of different colors, and often glazed. 
Chippy,a., Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless. 
Chirre,v. i., To coo, as a pigeon. 
Chisel,n., A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer. 
Chitin,n., A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin. 
Chiton,n., An under garment among the ancient Greeks, nearly representing the modern shirt. 
Chitty,a., Full of chits or sprouts.
Choice,n., Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing to another; election.
Choked,imp. & p. p., of Choke
Choker,n., One who, or that which, chokes. 
Choler,n., The bile; -- formerly supposed to be the seat and cause of irascibility.
Cholic,a., Alt. of Cholinic
Chosen,p. p., of Choose
Choose,v. t., To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two evils. 
Chopin,n., A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain, varying from half a pint to a wine quart. 
Choppy,a., Full of cracks.
Choral,a., Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony. 
Chorda,n., A cord.
Chored,imp. & p. p., of Chore
Chorea,n., St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.
Choree,n., See Choreus.
Choric,a., Of or pertaining to a chorus.
Chorus,n., A band of singers and dancers.
Choses,pl. , of Chose
Chosen,p. p., Selected from a number; picked out; choice.
Chouan,n., One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany, etc.
Chough,n., A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus
Chouka,n., The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.
Choule,n., See Jowl.
Chouse,v. t., To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to chouse one out of his money. 
Chowry,n., A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies. 
Chrism,n., Olive oil mixed with balm and spices, consecrated by the bishop on Maundy Thursday, and used in the administration of baptism, confirmation, ordination, etc. 
Christ,n., The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It is synonymous with the Hebrew Messiah. 
Chrome,n., Same as Chromium.
Chromo,n., A chromolithograph.
Chubby,a., Like a chub; plump, short, and thick. 
Chuffy,a., Fat or puffed out in the cheeks.
Chulan,n., The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in China for perfuming tea. 
Chunam,n., Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar. 
Chunky,a., Short and thick.
Church,n., A building set apart for Christian worship.
Churly,a., Rude; churlish; violent.
Churme,n., Alt. of Chirm
Chymic,, Alt. of Chymistry
Cicada,n., Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound by peculiar organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted American species (C. septendecim
Cicala,n., A cicada. See Cicada.
Cicely,n., Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis, Osmorrhiza, etc. 
Cicero,n., Pica type; -- so called by French printers.
Cicuta,n., a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water hemlock or cowbane is best known. 
Cierge,n., A wax candle used in religous rites.
Cilice,n., A kind of haircloth undergarment.
Cilium,n., See Cilia.
Cimbal,n., A kind of confectionery or cake.
Cimbia,n., A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it.
Cimiss,n., The bedbug.
Cinder,n., Partly burned or vitrified coal, or other combustible, in which fire is extinct. 
Cingle,n., A girth.
Cinque,n., Five; the number five in dice or cards.
Cinter,n., See Center.
Cinura,n. pl., The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms; the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma. 
Cipher,n., A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold. 
Cippus,n., A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral inscriptions, etc. 
Circar,n., A district, or part of a province. See Sircar. 
Circle,n., A plane figure, bounded by a single curve line called its circumference, every part of which is equally distant from a point within it, called the center. 
Circus,n., A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public shows. 
Cirque,n., A circle; a circus; a circular erection or arrangement of objects.
Cirrus,n., A tendril or clasper.
Cisted,a., Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.
Cistic,a., See Cystic.
Citing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cite
Citess,n., A city woman
Citied,a., Belonging to, or resembling, a city. 
Citole,n., A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer.
Citric,a., Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as, citric acid. 
Citron,n., A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce. 
Citrus,n., A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia. 
Cities,pl. , of City
Civics,n., The science of civil government.
Civily,adv., In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.
Civism,n., State of citizenship.
Cizars,n. pl., Scissors.
Claggy,a., Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.
Clammy,Compar., Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold perspiration. 
Clamor,n., A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or exclamation.
Claque,n., A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition.
Claret,n., The name first given in England to the red wines of Medoc, in France, and afterwards extended to all the red Bordeaux wines. The name is also given to similar wines made in the United States. 
Clarre,n., Wine with a mixture of honey and species.
Clarty,a., Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty.
Claude,, A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as a toy for viewing the reflected landscape. 
Clause,n., A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document. 
Clavel,n., See Clevis.
Claver,n., See Clover.
Claves,pl. , of Clavis
Clavis,n., A key; a glossary.
Clavus,n., A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn. 
Clawed,imp. & p. p., of Claw
Clayed,imp. & p. p., of Clay
Clayes,n. pl., Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers, to cover lodgments. 
Clayey,a., Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay; like clay.
Cleave,v. i. , To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.
Cloven,, of Cleave
Cleave,v. t., To part or divide by force; to split or rive; to cut.
Cleche,a., Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare Voided. 
Clechy,a., See Cleche.
Cledge,n., The upper stratum of fuller's earth.
Cledgy,a., Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil. 
Clench,n. & v. t., See Clinch.
Cleped,imp. & p. p., of Clepe
Clergy,n., The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established Church. 
Cleric,n., A clerk, a clergyman. 
Clever,a., Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or adroitness; expert. 
Clevis,n., A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.; -- called also clavel, clevy. 
Cliche,n., A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or lettering, in relief. 
Clicky,a., Resembling a click; abounding in clicks.
Client,n., A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of distinction and influence, who was called his patron. 
Cliffy,a., Having cliffs; broken; craggy.
Climax,v. i., Upward movement; steady increase; gradation; ascent.
Clinch,v. t., To hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.
Clingy,a., Apt to cling; adhesive.
Clinic,n., One confined to the bed by sickness.
Clione,n., A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea
Clique,v. i., A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense.
Cloaca,n., A sewer; as, the Cloaca Maxima of Rome. 
Cloddy,a., Consisting of clods; full of clods.
Cloggy,a., Clogging, or having power to clog. 
Clonic,a., Having an irregular, convulsive motion. 
Closed,imp. & p. p., of Close
Closen,v. t., To make close.
Closer,n., One who, or that which, closes; specifically, a boot closer. See under Boot. 
Closet,n., A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.
Cloths,pl. , of Cloth
Clothe,v. t., To put garments on; to cover with clothing; to dress.
Clotty,n., Full of clots, or clods. 
Cloudy,n., Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky. 
Clough,n., A cleft in a hill; a ravine; a narrow valley.
Cloven,p. p. & a., from Cleave, v. t. 
Clover,n., A plant of different species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense. 
Cloyed,imp. & p. p., of Cloy
Clumps,n., A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the players take sides in two   clumps   or groups, the   clump   which guesses the word winning the game. 
Clumpy,n., Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless.
Clumsy,superl., Stiff or benumbed, as with cold. 
Clunch,n., Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3. 
Clutch,n., A gripe or clinching with, or as with, the fingers or claws; seizure; grasp. 
Clypei,pl. , of Clypeus
Cnidae,pl. , of Cnida
Coaita,n., The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Coaled,imp. & p. p., of Coal
Coarct,a., Alt. of Coarctate
Coarse,superl., Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles; of inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in texture; gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand; coarse thread; coarse cloth; coarse bread. 
Coated,imp. & p. p., of Coat
Coatee,n., A coat with short flaps.
Coaxed,imp. & p. p., of Coax
Coaxer,n., One who coaxes.
Cobbed,imp. & p. p., of Cob
Cobaea,n., A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America. C. scandens is a conservatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers. 
Cobalt,n., A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co. 
Cobble,n., A fishing boat. See Coble.
Cobnut,n., A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.
Cobweb,n., The network spread by a spider to catch its prey.
Coccus,n., One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.
Coccyx,n., The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebrae more or less consolidated.
Cochin,, A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from Cochin China (Anam
Cocked,imp. & p. p., of Cock
Cockal,n., A game played with sheep's bones instead of dice
Cocker,v. t., To treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to pamper.
Cocket,n., Pert; saucy.
Cockle,n., A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium, especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to similar shells of other genera. 
Cockup,n., A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates calcarifer
Cocoon,n., An oblong case in which the silkworm lies in its chrysalis state. It is formed of threads of silk spun by the worm just before leaving the larval state. From these the silk of commerce is prepared.
Codder,n., A gatherer of cods or peas.
Coddle,v. t., To parboil, or soften by boiling. 
Codger,n., A miser or mean person.
Codify,v. t., To reduce to a code, as laws. 
Codist,n., A codifier; a maker of codes.
Codlin,n., Alt. of Codling
Coelia,n., A cavity.
Celiac,a., Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen. 
Coelum,n., See Body cavity, under Body. 
Coerce,v. t., To restrain by force, especially by law or authority; to repress; to curb. 
Coeval,n., Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with. 
Coffee,n., The   beans   or   berries   (pyrenes
Coffer,n., A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money or other valuables. 
Coffin,n., The case in which a dead human body is inclosed for burial.
Coffle,n., A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.
Cogged,imp. & p. p., of Cog
Cogent,p. a., Compelling, in a physical sense; powerful. 
Cogger,n., A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.
Coggle,n., A small fishing boat.
Cogman,n., A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth.
Cognac,n., A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac. 
Coheir,n., A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled to an inheritance.
Cohere,a., To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts of the same mass. 
Cohorn,n., See Coehorn.
Cohort,n., A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of a legion.
Cohosh,n., A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides
Coifed,a., Wearing a coif.
Coigne,n., A quoin.
Coigny,n., The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant; a quartering of one's self on anybody.
Coiled,imp. & p. p., of Coil
Coilon,n., A testicle.
Coined,imp. & p. p., of Coin
Coiner,n., One who makes or stamps coin; a maker of money; -- usually, a maker of counterfeit money. 
Cojoin,v. t., To join; to conjoin.
Coldly,adv., In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with indifference; calmly. 
Colera,n., Bile; choler.
Collet,, An inferior church servant. [Obs.] See Acolyte.
Coleus,n., A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for its bright-colored or variegated leaves. 
Colfox,n., A crafty fox.
Collar,n., Something worn round the neck, whether for use, ornament, restraint, or identification; as, the collar of a coat; a lady's collar; the collar of a dog. 
Collet,n., A small collar or neckband.
Colley,n., See Collie.
Collie,n., The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed especially in caring for flocks. 
Collin,n., A very pure form of gelatin.
Collop,n., A small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.
Collow,n., Soot; smut. See 1st Colly.
Collum,n., A neck or cervix.
Colony,n., A company of people transplanted from their mother country to a remote province or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdiction of the parent state; as, the British colonies in America. 
Colour,n., See Color.
Colter,n., A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. 
Colt's,, See under Colt.
Colugo,n., A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans
Column,n., A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order. 
Colure,n., One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other intersects the equator at the distance of 90? from the former, and is called the solstitial colure. 
Colies,pl. , of Coly
Comart,n., A covenant.
Comate,a., Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy. 
Combed,imp. & p. p., of Comb
Combat,v. i., To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight. 
Comber,n., One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc. Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc. 
Coming,p. pr & vb. n., of Come
Comedo,n., A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained oily secretion, with a black head (dirt
Comedy,n., A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; -- opposed to tragedy. 
Comely,superl., Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-looking; handsome.
Comfit,n., A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved with sugar and dried; a confection. 
Coming,a., Approaching; of the future, especially the near future; the next; as, the coming week or year; the coming exhibition. 
Comity,n., Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity of States. 
Commit,v. t., To give in trust; to put into charge or keeping; to intrust; to consign; -- used with to, unto. 
Commix,v. t. & i., To mix or mingle together; to blend.
Common,v., Belonging or relating equally, or similarly, to more than one; as, you and I have a common interest in the property. 
Comose,a., Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed. 
Compel,v. t., To drive or urge with force, or irresistibly; to force; to constrain; to oblige; to necessitate, either by physical or moral force. 
Comply,v. i., To yield assent; to accord; agree, or acquiesce; to adapt one's self; to consent or conform; -- usually followed by with. 
Compte,, A report of an officer or agent.
Conned,imp. & p. p., of Con
Concha,n., The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire apse.
Concur,v. i., To run together; to meet.
Conder,n., One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.
Condog,v. i., To concur; to agree.
Condor,n., A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus gryphus
Confab,n., Familiar talk or conversation.
Confer,v. t., To bring together for comparison; to compare.
Confit,n., Same as Comfit.
Confix,v. t., To fix; to fasten.
Confus,a., Confused, disturbed. 
Congee,n. & v., See Conge, Conge. 
Conger,n., The conger eel; -- called also congeree.
Congou,n., Alt. of Congo
Conics,n., That branch of geometry which treats of the cone and the curves which arise from its sections.
Conida,pl. , of Conidium
Conine,n., A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum
Conite,n., A magnesian variety of dolomite.
Conium,n., A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous plants, bearing ribbed fruit (  seeds  
Conner,n., A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops
Connex,v. t., To connect.
Conoid,n., Anything that has a form resembling that of a cone.
Consul,n., One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.
Contek,n., Quarrel; contention; contest.
Contex,v. t., To context.
Contra,, A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary, in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of many English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref. 
Conure,n., An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species are known. See Parrakeet.
Convex,a., Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave. 
Convey,v. t., To carry from one place to another; to bear or transport.
Convoy,v. t., To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman. 
Cooing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Coo
Cooked,imp. & p. p., of Cook
Cookee,n., A female cook.
Cookey,n., Alt. of Cookie
Cookie,n., See Cooky.
Cooled,imp. & p. p., of Cool
Cooler,n., That which cools, or abates heat or excitement. 
Coolie,n., Same as Cooly.
Coolly,a., Coolish; cool.
Coolie,n., An East Indian porter or carrier; a laborer transported from the East Indies, China, or Japan, for service in some other country. 
Coombe,n., A hollow in a hillside. [Prov. Eng.] See Comb, Combe. 
Cooped,imp. & p. p., of Coop
Coopee,n., See Coupe.
Cooper,n., One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc. 
Cooter,n., A fresh-water tortoise (Pseudemus concinna
Copart,v. t., To share.
Coping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cope
Copeck,n., A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.
Copier,n., One who copies; one who writes or transcribes from an original; a transcriber.
Coping,n., The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping. 
Copist,n., A copier.
Copped,a., Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested.
Coppel,n. & v., See Cupel.
Copper,n., A common metal of a reddish color, both ductile and malleable, and very tenacious. It is one of the best conductors of heat and electricity. Symbol Cu. Atomic weight 63.3. It is one of the most useful metals in itself, and also in its alloys, brass and bronze. 
Coppin,n., A cop of thread.
Copple,n., Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill rising to a point. 
Coptic,a., Of or pertaining to the Copts.
Copula,n., The word which unites the subject and predicate.
Copies,pl. , of Copy
Copied,imp. & p. p., of Copy
Copyer,n., See Copier.
Coquet,v. t., To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and disappoint. 
Corage,n., See Courage
Corant,n., Alt. of Coranto
Corban,n., An offering of any kind, devoted to God and therefore not to be appropriated to any other use; esp., an offering in fulfillment of a vow. 
Corbel,n., A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic architecture. 
Corbie,n., Alt. of Corby
Corcle,n., Alt. of Corcule
Corded,imp. & p. p., of Cord
Cordal,n., Same as Cordelle.
Corded,a., Bound or fastened with cords.
Cordon,n., A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a mark of a very high grade in an honorary order. Cf. Grand cordon. 
Coring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Core
Corves,pl. , of Corf
Corium,n., Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I. 
Corked,imp. & p. p., of Cork
Cormus,n., See Corm.
Corned,imp. & p. p., of Corn
Cornea,n., The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.
Cornel,n., The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas
Corner,n., The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either external or internal. 
Cornet,n., An obsolete rude reed instrument (Ger. Zinken
Cornic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus florida
Cornin,n., A bitter principle obtained from dogwood (Cornus florida
Cornua,pl. , of Cornu
Corody,n., An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's servants as he may designate to receive it. 
Corona,n., A crown or garland bestowed among the Romans as a reward for distinguished services.
Coroun,v. & n., Crown.
Corozo,n., Alt. of Corosso
Corpse,n., A human body in general, whether living or dead; -- sometimes contemptuously. 
Corpus,n., A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing. 
Corral,n., A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security for horses, cattle, etc. 
Correi,n., A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. 
Corrie,n., Same as Correi.
Corsac,n., The corsak.
Corsak,n., A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac
Corset,n., In the Middle Ages, a gown or basque of which the body was close fitting, worn by both men and women. 
Cortes,n. pl., The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain. 
Cortex,n., Bark, as of a tree; hence, an outer covering. 
Corvee,n., An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of roads, for the lord or sovereign. 
Corven,, p. p. of Carve.
Corvet,n., Alt. of Corvette
Corymb,n., A flat-topped or convex cluster of flowers, each on its own footstalk, and arising from different points of a common axis, the outermost blossoms expanding first, as in the hawthorn. 
Coryza,n., Nasal catarrh.
Cosher,v. t., To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at the expense of. See Coshering.
Cosier,n., A tailor who botches his work.
Cosily,adv., See Cozily.
Cosine,n., The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.
Cosmic,a., Alt. of Cosmical
Cosmos,n., The universe or universality of created things; -- so called from the order and harmony displayed in it.
Cossas,n., Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths. 
Cosset,n., A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in general. 
Cossic,a., Alt. of Cossical
Costal,a., Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal nerves. 
Coster,n., One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc. 
Costly,a., Of great cost; expensive; dear.
Cotise,n., See Cottise.
Cotter,n., Alt. of Cottar
Cottar,n., A cottager; a cottier.
Cotter,n., A piece of wood or metal, commonly wedge-shaped, used for fastening together parts of a machine or structure. It is driven into an opening through one or all of the parts. [See Illust.] In the United States a cotter is commonly called a key. 
Cotton,n., A soft, downy substance, resembling fine wool, consisting of the unicellular twisted hairs which grow on the seeds of the cotton plant. Long-staple cotton has a fiber sometimes almost two inches long; short-staple, from two thirds of an inch to an inch and a half. 
Cotyla,n., Alt. of Cotyle
Cotyle,n., A cuplike cavity or organ. Same as Acetabulum.
Coucal,n., A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of several species. 
Couche,v. t., Not erect; inclined; -- said of anything that is usually erect, as an escutcheon. 
Coudee,n., A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of the middle finger; a cubit.
Cougar,n., An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor
Coulee,n., A stream
County,n., An earldom; the domain of a count or earl.
Couped,a., Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased. 
Coupee,n., A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made. 
Couple,a., That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a coupler.
Coupon,n., A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.
Couage,v. t., To inspire with courage.
Courap,n., A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face. 
Course,n., The act of moving from one point to another; progress; passage.
Cousin,n., One collaterally related more remotely than a brother or sister; especially, the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt. 
Coving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cove
Covent,n., A convent or monastery.
Covert,v. t., Covered over; private; hid; secret; disguised.
Cowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cow
Cowage,n., See Cowhage.
Coward,a., Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion.
Cowboy,n., A cattle herder; a drover; specifically, one of an adventurous class of herders and drovers on the plains of the Western and Southwestern United States. 
Cowdie,n., See Kauri.
Cowish,v. t., Timorous; fearful; cowardly.
Cowled,a., Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. 
Cowpea,n., The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in the southern part of the United States. 
Cowpox,n., A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock. 
Cowrie,n., Same as Kauri.
Coying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Coy
Coyish,a., Somewhat coy or reserved.
Coyote,n., A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans
Cozier,n., See Cosier.
Cozily,adv., Snugly; comfortably.
Crabby,a., Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing. 
Craber,n., The water rat.
Crache,v., To scratch.
Cradle,n., A bed or cot for a baby, oscillating on rockers or swinging on pivots; hence, the place of origin, or in which anything is nurtured or protected in the earlier period of existence; as, a cradle of crime; the cradle of liberty. 
Crafty,a., Relating to, or characterized by, craft or skill; dexterous. 
Craggy,a., Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the craggy side of a mountain. 
Craker,n., One who boasts; a braggart.
Crambo,a., A game in which one person gives a word, to which another finds a rhyme. 
Crampy,, Affected with cramp.
Cranch,v. t., See Craunch.
Craned,imp. & p. p., of Crane
Crania,n., A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the cranium or skull.
Cranky,a., Full of spirit; crank.
Cranny,n., A small, narrow opening, fissure, crevice, or chink, as in a wall, or other substance. 
Crants,n., A garland carried before the bier of a maiden.
Craped,imp. & p. p., of Crape
Crasis,n., A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution; temperament. 
Cratch,n., A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack.
Crated,imp. & p. p., of Crate
Crater,n., The basinlike opening or mouth of a volcano, through which the chief eruption comes; similarly, the mouth of a geyser, about which a cone of silica is often built up. 
Cravat,n., A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn by men about the neck. 
Craved,imp. & p. p., of Crave
Craven,a., Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless.
Craver,n., One who craves or begs.
Crawly,a., Creepy.
Crayer,n., See Crare.
Crayon,n., An implement for drawing, made of clay and plumbago, or of some preparation of chalk, usually sold in small prisms or cylinders. 
Crazed,imp. & p. p., of Craze
Creamy,a., Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature, appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous. 
Creant,a., Creative; formative.
Crease,n., See Creese.
Creasy,a., Full of creases.
Create,a., Created; composed; begotten.
Cretor,n., One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, the Supreme Being. 
Creaze,n., The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing pit or buddle.
Cr/che,n., A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work. 
Credit,n., Reliance on the truth of something said or done; belief; faith; trust; confidence.
Creeks,n. pl., A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. They formerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. 
Creeky,a., Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks; like a creek; winding. 
Creepy,a., Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by insects creeping on the skin.
Creese,n., A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade. 
Cremor,n., Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.
Crenel,n., See Crenelle.
Creole,n., One born of European parents in the American colonies of France or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of Louisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf of of Mexico. 
Crepon,n., A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and silk. 
Cresol,n., Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous with and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and wood tar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids. [Called also cresylic acid.] 
Cressy,a., Abounding in cresses.
Cretan,a., Pertaining to Crete, or Candia. 
Cretic,n., A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long ones (- / -
Cretin,n., One afflicted with cretinism.
Crevet,n., A crucible or melting pot; a cruset.
Crevis,n., The crawfish.
Crewel,n., Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery. 
Crewet,n., See Cruet.
Criber,n., Alt. of Crib-biter
Crimpy,a., Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of the Saxony sheep. 
Crinal,a., Of or pertaining to the hair.
Crined,a., Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture. 
Crinel,n., Alt. of Crinet
Crinet,n., A very fine, hairlike feather. 
Crnged,imp. & p. p., of Cringe
Cringe,v. t., To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a degrading manner; to fawn.
Crinum,n., A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace/, cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty. 
Crises,pl. , of Crisis
Crisis,n., The point of time when it is to be decided whether any affair or course of action must go on, or be modified or terminate; the decisive moment; the turning point. 
Crispy,a., Formed into short, close ringlets; frizzed; crisp; as, crispy locks. 
Crissa,pl. , of Crissum
Critic,n., One skilled in judging of the merits of literary or artistic works; a connoisseur; an adept; hence, one who examines literary or artistic works, etc., and passes judgment upon them; a reviewer. 
Croche,n., A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.
Crocin,n., The coloring matter of Chinese yellow pods, the fruit of Gardenia grandiflora. 
Crocky,a., Smutty.
Crocus,n., A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising separately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest of spring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, and blossoms in the autumn. 
Croise,n., A pilgrim bearing or wearing a cross.
Croker,n., A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron.
Cronel,n., The iron head of a tilting spear.
Cronet,n., The coronet of a horse.
Crotch,n., The angle formed by the parting of two legs or branches; a fork; the point where a trunk divides; as, the crotch of a tree. 
Croton,n., A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical countries.
Crouch,v. i., To bend down; to stoop low; to lie close to the ground with the logs bent, as an animal when waiting for prey, or in fear. 
Crouke,n., A crock; a jar.
Croupy,a., Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as, a croupy cough. 
Crouse,a., Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent.
Crowed,, of Crow
Crowdy,n., A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the porridge kind.
Crowth,n., An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.
Crudle,v. i., See Cruddle.
Cruels,n. pl., Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.
Cruise,n., See Cruse, a small bottle. 
Cruive,n., A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel. 
Crummy,a., Full of crumb or crumbs.
Crumpy,a., Brittle; crisp.
Crunch,v. i., To chew with force and noise; to craunch.
Crural,a., Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal; crural ring. 
Cruset,n., A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.
Crusta,n., A crust or shell.
Crusty,a., Having the nature of crust; pertaining to a hard covering; as, a crusty coat; a crusty surface or substance. 
Crutch,n., A staff with a crosspiece at the head, to be placed under the arm or shoulder, to support the lame or infirm in walking. 
Cruxes,pl. , of Crux
Cruces,pl. , of Crux
Crying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cry
Cubbed,imp. & p. p., of Cub
Cubing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cube
Cubile,n., The lowest course of stones in a building.
Cuboid,a., Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot. 
Cuckoo,n., A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied genera, of many species. 
Cucujo,n., The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.
Cudden,n., A clown; a low rustic; a dolt.
Cuddle,v. i., To lie close or snug; to crouch; to nestle.
Cudgel,n., A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon. 
Cuerpo,n., The body.
Cuffed,imp. & p. p., of Cuff
Culdee,n., One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. 
Culled,imp. & p. p., of Cull
Culler,n., One who picks or chooses; esp., an inspector who selects wares suitable for market. 
Cullet,v. t., Broken glass for remelting.
Cullis,n., A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids; also, a savory jelly. 
Culmen,n., Top; summit; acme.
Culpon,n., A shred; a fragment; a strip of wood.
Cultch,n., Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the oyster.
Culter,n., A colter. See Colter.
Cultus,n. sing. & pl., Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship; state of religious development. Cf. Cult, 2. 
Culver,n., A dove.
Cumber,v. t., To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble. 
Cumene,n., A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol. 
Cummin,n., Same as Cumin.
Cumuli,pl. , of Cumulus
Cuneal,, Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.
Cunner,n., A small edible fish of the Atlantic coast (Ctenolabrus adspersus
Cupped,imp. & p. p., of Cup
Cupful,n., As much as a cup will hold.
Cupola,n., A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also, a ceiling having the same form. When on a large scale it is usually called dome. 
Cupper,n., One who performs the operation of cupping.
Cupric,a., Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its lowest proportion. 
Cuprum,n., Copper.
Cupule,n., A cuplet or little cup, as of the acorn; the husk or bur of the filbert, chestnut, etc. 
Curacy,n., The office or employment of a curate.
Curare,n., Alt. of Curari
Curari,n., A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.
Curate,n., One who has the cure of souls; originally, any clergyman, but now usually limited to one who assists a rector or vicar. 
Curbed,imp. & p. p., of Curb
Curded,imp. & p. p., of Curd
Curdle,v. i., To change into curd; to coagulate; as, rennet causes milk to curdle. 
Curing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Cure
Curfew,n., The ringing of an evening bell, originally a signal to the inhabitants to cover fires, extinguish lights, and retire to rest, -- instituted by William the Conqueror; also, the bell itself. 
Curiet,n., A cuirass.
Curing,, p. a. & vb. n. of Cure.
Curios,pl. , of Curio
Curled,imp. & p. p., of Curl
Curler,n., One who, or that which, curls. 
Curlew,n., A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long, slender, curved bill. 
Currie,n. & v., See 2d & 3d Curry.
Cursed,imp. & p. p., of Curse
Curser,n., One who curses.
Cursor,n., Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides backward and forward upon another part.
Curtal,a., Curt; brief; laconic.
Curtle,, Alt. of Curtelasse
Curtal,, A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery.
Curtes,a., Courteous.
Curtly,adv., In a curt manner.
Curtsy,n., Same as Courtesy, an act of respect. 
Curule,a., Of or pertaining to a chariot.
Cururo,n., A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.
Curval,p. pr., Alt. of Curvant
Curved,imp. & p. p., of Curve
Curvet,n., A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once. 
Cushat,n., The ringdove or wood pigeon.
Cuskin,n., A kind of drinking cup.
Cusped,imp. & p. p., of Cusp
Cuspid,n., One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point or cusp on the crown. See Tooth.
Cuspis,n., A point; a sharp end.
Custom,n., Frequent repetition of the same act; way of acting common to many; ordinary manner; habitual practice; usage; method of doing or living.
Custos,n., A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent.
Cutler,n., One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting instruments. 
Cutlet,n., A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for broiling. 
Cutose,n., A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid. 
Cutter,n., One who cuts; as, a stone cutter; a die cutter; esp., one who cuts out garments. 
Cuttle,n., A knife.
Cuttoo,, A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away from the axle.
Cutwal,n., The chief police officer of a large city.
Cyanic,a., Pertaining to, or containing, cyanogen. 
Cyanin,n., The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan and anthocyanin.
Cyclas,n., A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front
Cycled,imp. & p. p., of Cycle
Cyclic,a., Alt. of Cyclical
Cyclop,n., See Note under Cyclops, 1. 
Cygnet,n., A young swan.
Cygnus,n., A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or following, Lyra; the Swan. 
Cymbal,n., A musical instrument used by the ancients. It is supposed to have been similar to the modern kettle drum, though perhaps smaller. 
Cymene,n., A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen. 
Cymoid,a., Having the form of a cyme.
Cymose,a., Alt. of Cymous
Cymous,a., Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing, or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes. 
Cymric,a., Welsh.
Cymule,n., A small cyme, or one of very few flowers. 
Cypher,n. & v., See Cipher.
Cypres,n., A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.
Cypris,n., A genus of small, bivalve, fresh-water Crustacea, belonging to the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus. 
Cyprus,n., A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common, and used for mourning. 
Cysted,a., Inclosed in a cyst.
Cystic,a., Having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa. 
Cystid,n., One of the Cystidea.
Cystis,n., A cyst. See Cyst.
Cytode,n., A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are present. 
Cytoid,a., Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle, etc. 
Cytula,n., The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of which the child or other organism is formed. 
Czechs,n. pl., The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations, numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia and Moravia. 
Dabbed,imp. & p. p., of Dab
Dabber,n., That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink. 
Dabble,v. t., To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet.
Daboia,n., A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica
Dacapo,, From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated. 
Dacian,a., Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.
Dacoit,n., One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs. 
Dactyl,n., A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~
Dadoes,pl. , of Dado
Daedal,a., Alt. of Daedalian
Daemon,a., Alt. of Daemonic
Dagger,n., A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf. Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace. 
Dagges,n. pl., An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. 
Daggle,v. t., To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten. 
Dagoba,n., A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint.
Dahlia,n., A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositae; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color. 
Dahlin,n., A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin.
Daimio,n., The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.
Dainty,n., Value; estimation; the gratification or pleasure taken in anything.
Dakoit,n., Alt. of Dakoity
Dakota,, A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation in Western North America; -- so named from the region where the strata were first studied.
Dallop,n., A tuft or clump.
Dammed,imp. & p. p., of Dam
Damage,n., Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief. 
Damask,n., Damask silk; silk woven with an elaborate pattern of flowers and the like.
Dammar,n., Alt. of Dammara
Damned,imp. & p. p., of Damn
damnum,n., Harm; detriment, either to character or property. 
Damped,imp. & p. p., of Damp
Dampen,v. t., To make damp or moist; to make slightly wet.
Damper,n., That which damps or checks; as: (a
Dampne,v. t., To damn.
Damsel,n., A young person, either male or female, of noble or gentle extraction; as, Damsel Pepin; Damsel Richard, Prince of Wales. 
Damson,n., A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum. 
Danced,imp. & p. p., of Dance
Dancer,n., One who dances or who practices dancing.
Dander,n., Dandruff or scurf on the head.
Dandie,n., One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont.
Dandle,v. t., To move up and down on one's knee or in one's arms, in affectionate play, as an infant. 
Danger,n., Authority; jurisdiction; control.
Dangle,v. i., To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion. 
Daniel,n., A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge. 
Danish,a., Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country. 
Danite,n., A descendant of Dan; an Israelite of the tribe of Dan.
Daphne,n., A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms. 
Dapper,a., Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively.
Dapple,n., One of the spots on a dappled animal.
Daring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dare
Dargue,n., A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day. 
Daring,n., Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act. 
Darken,a., To make dark or black; to deprive of light; to obscure; as, a darkened room. 
Darkle,v. i., To grow dark; to show indistinctly.
Darkly,adv., With imperfect light, clearness, or knowledge; obscurely; dimly; blindly; uncertainly. 
Darned,imp. & p. p., of Darn
Darnel,n., Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel
Darner,n., One who mends by darning.
Darnex,n., Alt. of Darnic
Darnic,n., Same as Dornick.
Darted,imp. & p. p., of Dart
Darter,n., One who darts, or who throw darts; that which darts. 
Dartle,v. t. & i., To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart.
Dartos,n., A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum.
Dasewe,v. i., To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled.
Dashed,imp. & p. p., of Dash
Dasher,n., That which dashes or agitates; as, the dasher of a churn. 
Datary,n., An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria. 
Dating,p. pr. & vb. n., of Date
Dative,a., Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective. 
Datura,n., A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit. 
Daubed,imp. & p. p., of Daub
Dauber,n., One who, or that which, daubs; especially, a coarse, unskillful painter. 
Daubry,n., A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses.
Davyne,n., A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.
Davyum,n., A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a white malleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154.
Dawdle,v. i., To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.
Dawish,a., Like a daw.
Dawned,imp. & p. p., of Dawn
Dayaks,n. pl., See Dyaks.
Dayfly,n., A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral. 
Dazing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Daze
Dazzle,v. t., To overpower with light; to confuse the sight of by brilliance of light.
Deacon,n., An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church. 
Deaden,a., To make as dead; to impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation; to lessen the force or acuteness of; to blunt; as, to deaden the natural powers or feelings; to deaden a sound. 
Deadly,a., Capable of causing death; mortal; fatal; destructive; certain or likely to cause death; as, a deadly blow or wound. 
Deafen,v. t., To make deaf; to deprive of the power of hearing; to render incapable of perceiving sounds distinctly.
Deafly,adv., Without sense of sounds; obscurely.
Dealer,n., One who deals; one who has to do, or has concern, with others; esp., a trader, a trafficker, a shopkeeper, a broker, or a merchant; as, a dealer in dry goods; a dealer in stocks; a retail dealer. 
Dealth,n., Share dealt.
Dearie,n., Same as Deary.
Dearly,adv., In a dear manner; with affection; heartily; earnestly; as, to love one dearly. 
Dearth,n., Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine. 
Debarb,v. t., To deprive of the beard.
Debark,v. t. & i., To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.
Debase,a., To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity; to debase style by vulgar words. 
Debate,v. t., To engage in combat for; to strive for.
Debile,a., Weak.
Deblai,n., The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai
Debosh,v. t., To debauch.
Debris,n., Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base. 
Debted,p. a., Indebted; obliged to.
Debtee,n., One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.
Debtor,n., One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor.
Decade,n., A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; a decennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; the second decade of Livy. 
Decamp,v. i., To break up a camp; to move away from a camping ground, usually by night or secretly. 
Decane,n., A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, including several isomeric modifications. 
Decani,a., Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall is placed; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, or decani, side. 
Decant,v. t., To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decant wine. 
Decard,v. t., To discard.
Decede,n., To withdraw.
Deceit,n., An attempt or disposition to deceive or lead into error; any declaration, artifice, or practice, which misleads another, or causes him to believe what is false; a contrivance to entrap; deception; a wily device; fraud. 
Decene,n., One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series. 
Decent,a., Suitable in words, behavior, dress, or ceremony; becoming; fit; decorous; proper; seemly; as, decent conduct; decent language. 
Decern,v. t., To perceive, discern, or decide. 
Decerp,v. t., To pluck off; to crop; to gather.
Decide,v. t., To cut off; to separate.
Decile,n., An aspect or position of two planets, when they are distant from each other a tenth part of the zodiac, or 36?. 
Decime,n., A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about two cents. 
Decine,n., One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetylene series; -- called also decenylene. 
Decked,imp. & p. p., of Deck
Deckel,n., Same as Deckle.
Decker,n., One who, or that which, decks or adorns; a coverer; as, a table decker. 
Deckle,n., A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines the width of the paper. 
Decoct,v. t., To prepare by boiling; to digest in hot or boiling water; to extract the strength or flavor of by boiling; to make an infusion of.
Decore,v. t., To decorate; to beautify.
Decree,n., An order from one having authority, deciding what is to be done by a subordinate; also, a determination by one having power, deciding what is to be done or to take place; edict, law; authoritative ru// decision. 
Decrew,v. i., To decrease.
Decurt,v. t., To cut short; to curtail.
Decury,n., A set or squad of ten men under a decurion.
Dedans,n., A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators. 
Deduce,v. t., To lead forth.
Deduct,v. t., To lead forth or out.
Deduit,n., Delight; pleasure.
Deemed,imp. & p. p., of Deem
Deepen,v. t., To make deep or deeper; to increase the depth of; to sink lower; as, to deepen a well or a channel. 
Deeply,adv., At or to a great depth; far below the surface; as, to sink deeply. 
Deesis,n., An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being. 
Deface,v. t., To destroy or mar the face or external appearance of; to disfigure; to injure, spoil, or mar, by effacing or obliterating important features or portions of; as, to deface a monument; to deface an edifice; to deface writing; to deface a note, deed, or bond; to deface a record. 
Defail,v. t., To cause to fail.
Defalk,v. t., To lop off; to abate.
Defame,v. t., To harm or destroy the good fame or reputation of; to disgrace; especially, to speak evil of maliciously; to dishonor by slanderous reports; to calumniate; to asperse. 
Defeat,v. t., To undo; to disfigure; to destroy.
Defect,n., Want or absence of something necessary for completeness or perfection; deficiency; -- opposed to superfluity.
Defend,v. t., To ward or fend off; to drive back or away; to repel.
Defier,n., One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of the laws. 
Defile,v. i., To march off in a line, file by file; to file off. 
Define,v. t., To fix the bounds of; to bring to a termination; to end.
Deflow,v. i., To flow down.
Deflux,n., Downward flow.
Deform,v. t., To spoil the form of; to mar in form; to misshape; to disfigure.
Defoul,v. t., To tread down.
Defray,v. t., To pay or discharge; to serve in payment of; to provide for, as a charge, debt, expenses, costs, etc. 
Deftly,adv., Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly.
Defuse,v. t., To disorder; to make shapeless.
Defied,imp. & p. p., of Defy
Degree,n., A step, stair, or staircase. 
Degust,v. t., To taste.
Dehorn,v. t., To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth of the horns of (cattle
Dehors,prep., Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record, will, or other instrument. 
Dehort,v. t., To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade.
Dehusk,v. t., To remove the husk from.
Deific,a., Alt. of Deifical
Deject,v. t., To cast down.
Delate,v., To carry; to convey.
Delays,pl. , of Delay
Delete,v. t., To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.
Delict,n., An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law
Deline,v. t., To delineate.
Deloul,n., A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; the swift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik. 
Deltas,pl. , of Delta
Deltic,a., Deltaic.
Delude,v. t., To lead from truth or into error; to mislead the mind or judgment of; to beguile; to impose on; to dupe; to make a fool of.
Deluge,n., A washing away; an overflowing of the land by water; an inundation; a flood; specifically, The Deluge, the great flood in the days of Noah (Gen. vii.
Delved,imp. & p. p., of Delve
Delver,n., One who digs, as with a spade. 
Demain,n., Rule; management.
Demand,v. t., To ask or call for with authority; to claim or seek from, as by authority or right; to claim, as something due; to call for urgently or peremptorily; as, to demand a debt; to demand obedience. 
Demean,v. t., To manage; to conduct; to treat.
Dement,v. t., To deprive of reason; to make mad.
Demise,n., Transmission by formal act or conveyance to an heir or successor; transference; especially, the transfer or transmission of the crown or royal authority to a successor. 
Demiss,a., Cast down; humble; submissive.
Dempne,v. t., To damn; to condemn.
Demure,a., Of sober or serious mien; composed and decorous in bearing; of modest look; staid; grave.
Demies,pl. , of Demy
Denary,a., Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, or decimal, scale. 
Dengue,n., A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneous eruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those of rheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India, Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal. 
Denial,n., The act of gainsaying, refusing, or disowning; negation; -- the contrary of affirmation. 
Denier,n., One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or of Christ. 
Denize,v. t., To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; to naturalize.
Dennet,n., A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind of gig. 
Denote,v. t., To mark out plainly; to signify by a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out; as, the hands of the clock denote the hour. 
Dented,imp. & p. p., of Dent
Dental,a., Of or pertaining to the teeth or to dentistry; as, dental surgery. 
Dented,v. t., Indented; impressed with little hollows.
Dentel,n., Same as Dentil.
Dentex,n., An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentex vulgaris
Dentil,n., A small square block or projection in cornices, a number of which are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders. 
Denude,v. t., To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; to divest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands. 
Denied,imp. & p. p., of Deny
Deodar,n., A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara
Depart,v. i., To part; to divide; to separate.
Depend,v. i., To hang down; to be sustained by being fastened or attached to something above.
Depict,p. p., Depicted.
Deploy,v. t. & i., To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops
Depone,v. t., To lay, as a stake; to wager. 
Deport,v. t., To transport; to carry away; to exile; to send into banishment.
Depose,v. t., To lay down; to divest one's self of; to lay aside.
Depper,a., Deeper.
Depure,v. t., To depurate; to purify.
Depute,v. t., To appoint as deputy or agent; to commission to act in one's place; to delegate.
Deputy,n., One appointed as the substitute of another, and empowered to act for him, in his name or his behalf; a substitute in office; a lieutenant; a representative; a delegate; a vicegerent; as, the deputy of a prince, of a sheriff, of a township, etc. 
Derain,v. t., To prove or to refute by proof; to clear (one's self
Derail,v. t., To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as a locomotive. 
Derbio,n., A large European food fish (Lichia glauca
Deride,v. t., To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn to ridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at.
Derive,v. t., To turn the course of, as water; to divert and distribute into subordinate channels; to diffuse; to communicate; to transmit; -- followed by to, into, on, upon. 
Dermal,a., Pertaining to the integument or skin of animals; dermic; as, the dermal secretions. 
Dermic,a., Relating to the derm or skin.
Dermis,n., The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix. 
Dernly,adv., Secretly; grievously; mournfully.
Dervis,n., A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life. 
Descry,v. t., To spy out or discover by the eye, as objects distant or obscure; to espy; to recognize; to discern; to discover. 
Desert,n., That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit. 
Design,n., To draw preliminary outline or main features of; to sketch for a pattern or model; to delineate; to trace out; to draw.
Desire,v. t., To long for; to wish for earnestly; to covet.
Desist,v. i., To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often with from.
Desked,imp. & p. p., of Desk
Desman,n., An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogale moschata
Desmid,n., Alt. of Desmidian
Despot,n., A master; a lord; especially, an absolute or irresponsible ruler or sovereign. 
Destin,n., Destiny.
Desume,v. t., To select; to borrow.
Detach,v. t., To part; to separate or disunite; to disengage; -- the opposite of attach; as, to detach the coats of a bulbous root from each other; to detach a man from a leader or from a party. 
Detail,n., A minute portion; one of the small parts; a particular; an item; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the details of a scheme or transaction. 
Detain,v. t., To keep back or from; to withhold.
Detect,a., Detected.
Detent,n., That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog; especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks the wheelwork in striking. 
Detest,v. t., To witness against; to denounce; to condemn.
Detort,v. t., To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; to wrest.
Detour,n., A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a direct course; as, the detours of the Mississippi. 
Deturb,v. t., To throw down.
Deturn,v. t., To turn away.
Deuced,a., Devilish; excessive; extreme.
Deused,a., See Deuce, Deuced. 
Devast,v. t., To devastate.
Devata,n., A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol.
Devest,v. t., To divest; to undress.
Device,n., That which is devised, or formed by design; a contrivance; an invention; a project; a scheme; often, a scheme to deceive; a stratagem; an artifice. 
Devise,v. t., To form in the mind by new combinations of ideas, new applications of principles, or new arrangement of parts; to formulate by thought; to contrive; to excogitate; to invent; to plan; to scheme; as, to devise an engine, a new mode of writing, a plan of defense, or an argument. 
Devoid,v. t., To empty out; to remove.
Devoir,n., Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; -- now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies. 
Devote,v. t., To appropriate by vow; to set apart or dedicate by a solemn act; to consecrate; also, to consign over; to doom; to evil; to devote one to destruction; the city was devoted to the flames. 
Devoto,n., A devotee.
Devour,v. t., To eat up with greediness; to consume ravenously; to feast upon like a wild beast or a glutton; to prey upon.
Devout,v. t., Devoted to religion or to religious feelings and duties; absorbed in religious exercises; given to devotion; pious; reverent; religious.
Devove,v. t., To devote.
Dewing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dew
Dewlap,n., The pendulous skin under the neck of an ox, which laps or licks the dew in grazing. 
Dewret,v. t., To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.
Dewrot,v. t., To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. See Dewretting. 
Dexter,a., Pertaining to, or situated on, the right hand; right, as opposed to sinister, or left. 
Deynte,n. & a., Alt. of Deyntee
Dhurra,n., Indian millet. See Durra.
Diacid,a., Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturating two acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., and Biacid. 
Diadem,n., Originally, an ornamental head band or fillet, worn by Eastern monarchs as a badge of royalty; hence (later
Dialed,imp. & p. p., of Dial
Diaper,n., Any textile fabric (esp. linen or cotton toweling
Diatom,n., One of the Diatomaceae, a family of minute unicellular Algae having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms are called Bacillariae, but this word is not in general use. 
Dibber,n., A dibble.
Dibble,v. i., A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in which no set out plants or to plant seeds.
Dicast,n., A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modern juryman.
Dicing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dice
Dicker,n., The number or quantity of ten, particularly ten hides or skins; a dakir; as, a dicker of gloves. 
Dickey,n., Alt. of Dicky
Dictum,n., An authoritative statement; a dogmatic saying; an apothegm.
Diddle,v. i., To totter, as a child in walking. 
Didine,a., Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo. 
Dieses,pl. , of Diesis
Diesis,n., A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used in the mathematical calculation of intervals. 
Dieted,imp. & p. p., of Diet
Dieter,n., One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules. 
Dietic,a., Dietetic.
Differ,v. i., To be or stand apart; to disagree; to be unlike; to be distinguished; -- with from.
Digged,, of Dig
Digamy,n., Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy. 
Digest,v. t., To distribute or arrange methodically; to work over and classify; to reduce to portions for ready use or application; as, to digest the laws, etc. 
Digger,n., One who, or that which, digs. 
Digram,n., A digraph.
Diiamb,n., A diiambus.
Diking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dike
Dilate,v. t., To expand; to distend; to enlarge or extend in all directions; to swell; -- opposed to contract; as, the air dilates the lungs; air is dilated by increase of heat. 
Dilogy,n., An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used an equivocal sense.
Dilute,v. t., To make thinner or more liquid by admixture with something; to thin and dissolve by mixing.
Dimmed,imp. & p. p., of Dim
Dimble,n., A bower; a dingle.
Dimera,n. pl., A division of Coleoptera, having two joints to the tarsi. 
Dimish,a., See Dimmish.
Dimity,n., A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings, and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns, both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors. 
Dimple,n., A slight natural depression or indentation on the surface of some part of the body, esp. on the cheek or chin. 
Dimply,a., Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimply pool. 
Dinned,imp. & p. p., of Din
Dining,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dine
Dinged,imp. & p. p., of Ding
Dingey,n., Alt. of Dinghy
Dinghy,n., A kind of boat used in the East Indies.
Dingle,n., A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and embowered valley. 
Dining,n. & a., from Dine, a. 
Dinner,n., The principal meal of the day, eaten by most people about midday, but by many (especially in cities
Dinted,imp. & p. p., of Dint
Diodon,n., A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth of each jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able to inflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are called globefishes, swellfishes, etc. Called also porcupine fishes, and sea hedgehogs. 
Dipped,imp. & p. p., of Dip
Diploe,n., The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull. 
Dipnoi,n. pl., A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the Amphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils open inside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix. 
Dipody,n., Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure. 
Dipper,n., One who, or that which, dips; especially, a vessel used to dip water or other liquid; a ladle. 
Dipsas,n., A serpent whose bite was fabled to produce intense thirst.
Dipyre,n., A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it phosphorescent. 
Direct,a., Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct means. 
Direly,adv., In a dire manner.
Dirige,n., A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first word; a dirge. 
Dirked,imp. & p. p., of Dirk
Disard,n., See Dizzard.
Disarm,v. t., To deprive of arms; to take away the weapons of; to deprive of the means of attack or defense; to render defenseless.
Disbar,v. t., To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an attorney, barrister, or counselor
Disbud,v., To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing the vital strength of a tree. 
Discal,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells. 
Discus,n., A quoit; a circular plate of some heavy material intended to be pitched or hurled as a trial of strength and skill.
Disert,a., Eloquent.
Dished,imp. & p. p., of Dish
Dismal,a., Fatal; ill-omened; unlucky.
Disman,v. t., To unman.
Dismaw,v. t., To eject from the maw; to disgorge.
Dismay,v. i., To disable with alarm or apprehensions; to depress the spirits or courage of; to deprive or firmness and energy through fear; to daunt; to appall; to terrify.
Disorb,v. t., To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere.
Disord,n., Disorder.
Disown,v. t., To refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one's self; to disavow or deny, as connected with one's self personally; as, a parent can hardly disown his child; an author will sometimes disown his writings. 
Dispel,v. t., To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares, doubts, illusions. 
Disple,v. t., To discipline; to correct.
Disray,variant, of Disarray.
Distad,adv., Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally.
Distal,a., Remote from the point of attachment or origin; as, the distal end of a bone or muscle 
Dister,v. t., To banish or drive from a country.
Distil,v. t. & i., See Distill.
Disuse,v. t., To cease to use; to discontinue the practice of.
Dition,n., Dominion; rule.
Ditone,n., The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (the modern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone
Dittos,pl. , of Ditto
Diurna,n. pl., A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- so called because they fly only in the daytime. 
Divast,a., Devastated; laid waste.
Diving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dive
Diverb,n., A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted; an antithetical proverb.
Divers,a., Different in kind or species; diverse.
Divert,v. t., To turn aside; to turn off from any course or intended application; to deflect; as, to divert a river from its channel; to divert commerce from its usual course. 
Divest,v. t., To unclothe; to strip, as of clothes, arms, or equipage; -- opposed to invest. 
Divide,v. t., To part asunder (a whole
Divine,a., Of or belonging to God; as, divine perfections; the divine will. 
Diving,a., That dives or is used or diving.
Djinns,pl. , of Djinnee
Doable,a., Capable of being done.
Dobber,n., See Dabchick.
Dobbin,n., An old jaded horse.
Dobson,n., The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus
Dobule,n., The European dace.
Docent,a., Serving to instruct; teaching.
Docile,a., Teachable; easy to teach; docible.
Docity,n., Teachableness.
Docked,imp. & p. p., of Dock
Docket,n., A small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest. 
Doctor,n., A teacher; one skilled in a profession, or branch of knowledge learned man. 
Dodded,a., Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, dodded corn. 
Dodder,n., A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vine with yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some other plant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root, is nourished by the plant that supports it. 
Dodged,imp. & p. p., of Dodge
Dodger,n., One who dodges or evades; one who plays fast and loose, or uses tricky devices. 
Dodkin,n., A doit; a small coin.
Dodman,n., A snail; also, a snail shell; a hodmandod. 
Dodoes,pl. , of Dodo
Doffed,imp. & p. p., of Doff
Doffer,n., A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in a carding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from the cards. 
Dogged,imp. & p. p., of Dog
Dogate,n., The office or dignity of a doge.
Dogday,, One of the dog days.
Dogged,a., Sullen; morose.
Dogger,n., A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch. 
Dogget,n., Docket. See Docket.
Dogmas,pl. , of Dogma
Dogtie,n., A cramp.
Doings,pl. , of Doing
Doling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dole
Dolent,a., Sorrowful.
Dolium,n., A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridge shell and tun shells. 
Dollar,n., A silver coin of the United States containing 371.25 grains of silver and 41.25 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 412.5 grains. 
Dolman,n., A long robe or outer garment, with long sleeves, worn by the Turks. 
Dolmen,n., A cromlech. See Cromlech.
Dolven,p. p., of Delve.
Domage,n., Damage; hurt.
Domain,n., Dominion; empire; authority.
Domett,n., A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weft woolen.
Domify,v. t., To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, in astrological sense. 
Domina,n., Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies who held a barony in their own right.
Domine,n., A name given to a pastor of the Reformed Church. The word is also applied locally in the United States, in colloquial speech, to any clergyman. 
Domino,n., A kind of hood worn by the canons of a cathedral church; a sort of amice.
Domini,pl. , of Dominus
Domite,n., A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de-Dome in Auvergne, France, where it is found. 
Donned,imp. & p. p., of Don
Donary,n., A thing given to a sacred use.
Donate,v. t., To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousand dollars to a college. 
Donjon,n., The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower in ancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications. See Illust. of Castle. 
Donkey,n., An ass; or (less frequently
Donnat,n., See Do-naught.
Donzel,n., A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page. 
Doodle,n., A trifler; a simple fellow.
Doomed,imp. & p. p., of Doom
Doorga,n., A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with ten arms. 
Dopper,n., An Anabaptist or Baptist.
Doquet,n., A warrant. See Docket.
Dorado,n., A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of the ecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish. 
Dorian,a., Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks of Doris; Doric; as, a Dorian fashion. 
Dorism,n., A Doric phrase or idiom.
Dormer,n., Alt. of Dormer window
Dorsad,adv., Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally.
Dorsal,a., Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsal fin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed to ventral. 
Dorsel,n., A pannier.
Dorser,n., See Dosser.
Dorsum,n., The ridge of a hill.
Dories,pl. , of Dory
dosing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dose
Dossel,n., Same as Dorsal, n. 
Dosser,n., A pannier, or basket. 
Dossil,n., A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, for keeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent. 
Dotted,imp. & p. p., of Dot
Dotage,v. i., Feebleness or imbecility of understanding or mind, particularly in old age; the childishness of old age; senility; as, a venerable man, now in his dotage. 
Dotant,n., A dotard.
Dotard,v. i., One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood.
Dotary,n., A dotard's weakness; dotage.
Doting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dote
Dotery,n., The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel.
Doting,a., That dotes; silly; excessively fond.
Dotish,a., Foolish; weak; imbecile.
Dotted,a., Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified with small, detached objects. 
Douane,n., A customhouse.
Double,a., Twofold; multiplied by two; increased by its equivalent; made twice as large or as much, etc. 
Doubly,adv., In twice the quantity; to twice the degree; as, doubly wise or good; to be doubly sensible of an obligation. 
Doucet,n., Alt. of Dowset
Dowset,n., A custard.
Douche,n., A jet or current of water or vapor directed upon some part of the body to benefit it medicinally; a douche bath.
Doughy,a., Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as, a doughy complexion. 
Doused,imp. & p. p., of Douse
Douter,n., An extinguisher for candles.
Dovish,a., Like a dove; harmless; innocent.
Dowcet,n., One of the testicles of a hart or stag.
Dowery,n., See Dower.
Dowlas,n., A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and in Scotland, now nearly replaced by calico. 
Downed,imp. & p. p., of Down
Dowral,a., Of or relating to a dower.
Dowser,n., A divining rod used in searching for water, ore, etc., a dowsing rod. 
Doxies,pl. , of Doxy
Dozing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Doze
Dozens,pl. , of Dozen
Drachm,n., A drachma.
Dracin,n., See Draconin.
Dradde,imp., of Dread.
Dradge,n., Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing. 
Draffy,a., Dreggy; waste; worthless.
Dragon,n., A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious. 
Draine,n., The missel thrush.
Draped,imp. & p. p., of Drape
Draper,n., One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper and tailor. 
Drapet,n., Cloth.
Drasty,a., Filthy; worthless.
Draugh,n., See Draft.
Drawee,n., The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; -- the correlative of drawer.
Drawer,n., One who, or that which, draws 
Drazel,n., A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel.
Dreamt,, of Dream
Dreamy,superl., Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, or like, dreams; visionary. 
Dreary,superl., Sorrowful; distressful.
Dredge,n., Any instrument used to gather or take by dragging; as: (a
Dreggy,a., Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent.
Dreint,, p. p. of Drench to drown.
Drench,v. t., To cause to drink; especially, to dose by force; to put a potion down the throat of, as of a horse; hence. to purge violently by physic. 
Dressy,a., Showy in dress; attentive to dress.
Dretch,v. t. & i., See Drecche.
Drevil,n., A fool; a drudge. See Drivel.
Dreynt,, p. p., of Drench to drown. 
Driest,superl., of Dry, a. 
Drifty,a., Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like. 
Drimys,n., A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishes Winter's bark.
Driven,p. p., of Drive
Drivel,v. i., To slaver; to let spittle drop or flow from the mouth, like a child, idiot, or dotard. 
Driven,p. p., of Drive. Also adj.
Driver,n., One who, or that which, drives; the person or thing that urges or compels anything else to move onward. 
Drogue,n., See Drag, n., 6, and Drag sail, under Drag, n. 
Dromon,, In the Middle Ages, a large, fast-sailing galley, or cutter; a large, swift war vessel. 
Droned,imp. & p. p., of Drone
Drongo,n., A passerine bird of the family Dicruridae. They are usually black with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa, and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes. 
Dronte,n., The dodo.
Dropsy,n., An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. 
Drosky,n., A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds of vehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one or two horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities. 
Drossy,superl., Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure; worthless. 
Drough,imp., of Draw.
Droumy,a., Troubled; muddy.
Drouth,n., Same as Drought.
Droven,p. p., of Drive.
Drover,n., One who drives cattle or sheep to market; one who makes it his business to purchase cattle, and drive them to market. 
Drowse,v. i., To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy with sleepiness; to doze.
Drowsy,superl., Inclined to drowse; heavy with sleepiness; lethargic; dozy.
Drowth,n., See Drought.
Droyle,v. i., See Droil.
Drudge,v. i., To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant offices with toil and fatigue.
Druery,n., Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love.
Drumly,a., Turbid; muddy.
Drupal,a., Drupaceous.
Drupel,n., Alt. of Drupelet
Drused,a., Covered with a large number of minute crystals.
Druxey,a., Alt. of Druxy
Drying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dry
Dualin,n., An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust or wood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitro compounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable to explosion. 
Dubbed,imp. & p. p., of Dub
Dubber,n., One who, or that which, dubs. 
Ducked,imp. & p. p., of Duck
Ducker,n., One who, or that which, ducks; a plunger; a diver. 
Ductor,n., One who leads.
Dudder,v. t., To confuse or confound with noise.
Dudeen,n., A short tobacco pipe.
Dudish,a., Like, or characterized of, a dude. 
Dueful,a., Fit; becoming.
Dueler,n., One who engages in a duel.
Duenna,n., The chief lady in waiting on the queen of Spain.
Duetto,n., See Duet.
Duffel,n., A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze. 
Duffer,n., A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap, flashy articles, as sham jewelry; hence, a sham or cheat. 
Duffle,n., See Duffel.
Dugong,n., An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong
Dugout,n., A canoe or boat dug out from a large log.
Dugway,n., A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface of the land. 
Dulcet,a., Sweet to the taste; luscious.
Duller,imp. & p. p., of Dull
Dumbly,adv., In silence; mutely.
Dumose,a., Alt. of Dumous
Dumous,a., Abounding with bushes and briers.
Dumped,imp. & p. p., of Dump
Dumple,v. t., To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another. 
Dunned,imp. & p. p., of Dun
Dunder,n., The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation of rum. 
Dunged,imp. & p. p., of Dung
Dunker,n., One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices are mainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; -- called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren, and German Baptists. 
Dunlin,n., A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina
Dunner,n., One employed in soliciting the payment of debts.
Dunted,a., Beaten; hence, blunted. 
Dunter,n., A porpoise.
Duping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dupe
Dupery,n., The act or practice of duping.
Dupion,n., A double cocoon, made by two silkworms. 
Duplex,a., Double; twofold.
Dupper,n., See 2d Dubber.
Durant,n., See Durance, 3. 
Durbar,n., An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee; a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor general of India. 
Durene,n., A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3
Duress,n., Hardship; constraint; pressure; imprisonment; restraint of liberty.
Durham,n., One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in the county of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for their beef-producing quality. 
Durian,n., Alt. of Durion
Durion,n., The fruit of the durio. It is oval or globular, and eight or ten inches long. It has a hard prickly rind, containing a soft, cream-colored pulp, of a most delicious flavor and a very offensive odor. The seeds are roasted and eaten like chestnuts. 
During,prep., In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year. 
Durity,n., Hardness; firmness.
Durous,a., Hard.
Dusken,v. t., To make dusk or obscure.
Dusted,imp. & p. p., of Dust
Duster,n., One who, or that which, dusts; a utensil that frees from dust. 
Dutied,a., Subjected to a duty.
Duties,pl. , of Duty
Dvergr,n., A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillful in working metals.
Dwarfs,pl. , of Dwarf
Dwarfy,a., Much undersized.
Dwaule,v. i., To be delirious.
Dyadic,a., Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements.
Dyeing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Dye
Dynamo,n., A dynamo-electric machine.
Dynast,n., A ruler; a governor; a prince.
Dysury,n., Difficult or painful discharge of urine.
Dzeren,n., Alt. of Dzeron
Dzeron,n., The Chinese yellow antelope (Procapra gutturosa
Eadish,n., See Eddish.
Eaglet,n., A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle. 
Earing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ear
Earcap,n., A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.
Earing,n., A line used to fasten the upper corners of a sail to the yard or gaff; -- also called head earing.
Earlap,n., The lobe of the ear.
Earles,, Earnest money. Same as Arles penny.
Earlet,n., An earring.
Earned,imp. & p. p., of Earn
Earthy,a., Consisting of, or resembling, earth; terrene; earthlike; as, earthy matter. 
Earwax,n., See Cerumen.
Earwig,n., Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belonging to the order Euplexoptera. 
Easing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ease
Easily,adv., With ease; without difficulty or much effort; as, this task may be easily performed; that event might have been easily foreseen. 
Easter,n., An annual church festival commemorating Christ's resurrection, and occurring on Sunday, the second day after Good Friday. It corresponds to the pasha or passover of the Jews, and most nations still give it this name under the various forms of pascha, pasque, paque, or pask. 
Eating,p. pr. & vb. n., of Eat
Eatage,n., Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that of aftermath. 
Eating,n., The act of tasking food; the act of consuming or corroding.
Ebbing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ebb
Eburin,n., A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; -- used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals, etc. 
Ecarte,n., A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which the players may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive others from the pack. 
Ecbole,n., A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his own words.
Echini,pl. , of Echinus
Echoes,pl. , of Echo
Echoed,imp. & p. p., of Echo
Echoes,3d pers. sing. pres., of Echo
Echoer,n., One who, or that which, echoes. 
Echoon,pron., Each one.
Eclair,n., A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream. 
Eclegm,n., A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups.
Ecoute,n., One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. They serve to annoy the enemy's miners.
Ectopy,n., Same as Ectopia.
Ectype,n., A copy, as in pottery, of an artist's original work. Hence: 
Ecurie,n., A stable.
Eczema,n., An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by the presence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, and the discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leaving the skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, and salt rheum. 
Eddaic,a., Alt. of Eddic
Eddish,n., Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish. 
Eddoes,n. pl., The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.
Eddies,pl. , of Eddy
Eddied,imp. & p. p., of Eddy
Edenic,a., Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic.
Edging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Edge
Edible,a., Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes. 
Edited,imp. & p. p., of Edit
Editor,n., One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication. 
Educed,imp. & p. p., of Educe
Eelpot,n., A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels; an eelbuck.
Eerily,adv., In a strange, unearthly way. 
Efface,v. t., To cause to disappear (as anything impresses or inscribed upon a surface
Effect,n., Execution; performance; realization; operation; as, the law goes into effect in May. 
Effete,a., No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile. 
Effigy,n., The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of the heads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits. 
Efflux,n., The act or process of flowing out, or issuing forth; effusion; outflow; as, the efflux of matter from an ulcer; the efflux of men's piety. 
Efform,v. t., To form; to shape.
Effort,n., An exertion of strength or power, whether physical or mental, in performing an act or aiming at an object; more or less strenuous endeavor; struggle directed to the accomplishment of an object; as, an effort to scale a wall. 
Effray,v. t., To frighten; to scare.
Effume,v. t., To breathe or puff out.
Effund,v. t., To pour out.
Effuse,a., Poured out freely; profuse.
Efreet,n., See Afrit.
Egence,n., The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want. 
Egesta,n. pl., That which is egested or thrown off from the body by the various excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta.
Egging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Egg
Eggery,n., A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds
Egghot,n., A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale. 
Eggler,n., One who gathers, or deals in, eggs. 
Eggnog,n., A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and (usually
Egling,n., The European perch when two years old.
Egoism,n., The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for. 
Egoist,n., One given overmuch to egoism or thoughts of self.
Egoity,n., Personality.
Egress,n., The act of going out or leaving, or the power to leave; departure. 
Egriot,n., A kind of sour cherry.
Ehlite,n., A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrous phosphate of copper.
Eighth,a., Next in order after the seventh.
Eighty,a., Eight times ten; fourscore.
Eiking,n., See Eking.
Either,a. & pron., One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. 
Ekabor,n., Alt. of Ekaboron
Elaeis,n., A genus of palms.
Elaine,n., Alt. of Elain
Elance,v. t., To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart.
Elanet,n., A kite of the genus Elanus.
Elapse,v. i., To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- used chiefly in reference to time. 
Elated,imp. & p. p., of Elate
Elater,n., One who, or that which, elates. 
Elcaja,n., An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica
Eldern,a., Made of elder.
Eldest,a., Oldest; longest in duration.
Elding,n., Fuel.
Elegit,n., A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods are appraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if not sufficient to satisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered, to be held till the debt is paid by the rents and profits, or until the defendant's interest has expired. 
Elemin,n., A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin by distillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from the resin. 
Elench,n., That part of an argument on which its conclusiveness depends; that which convinces of refutes an antagonist; a refutation.
Elenge,a., Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble.
Eleven,a., Ten and one added; as, eleven men. 
Elfish,a., Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcely human; mischievous, as though caused by elves. 
Elfkin,n., A little elf.
Elicit,a., Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident.
Elided,imp. & p. p., of Elide
Elison,n., Division; separation.
Elisor,n., An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a court to return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coroners are disqualified.
Elixir,n., A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture or medicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcohol in some form. 
Elknut,n., The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo.
Elleck,n., The red gurnard or cuckoo fish.
Elmo's,, See Corposant; also Saint Elmo's Fire, under Saint. 
Elohim,n., One of the principal names by which God is designated in the Hebrew Scriptures.
Eloign,v. t., To remove afar off; to withdraw.
Eloped,imp. & p. p., of Elope
Eloper,n., One who elopes.
Elrich,a., Alt. of Elritch
Eluded,imp. & p. p., of Elude
Elvish,a., Pertaining to elves; implike; mischievous; weird; also, vacant; absent in demeanor. See Elfish. 
Elwand,n., See Ellwand.
Elysia,pl. , of Elysium
Elytra,pl. , of Elytrum
Aemail,, An art or process of flooding transparent colored glaze over designs stamped or molded on earthenware or porcelain.
Embace,v. t., See Embase.
Embale,v. t., To make up into a bale or pack.
Emball,v. t., To encircle or embrace.
Embalm,v. t., To anoint all over with balm; especially, to preserve from decay by means of balm or other aromatic oils, or spices; to fill or impregnate (a dead body
Embank,v. t., To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect by a bank of earth or stone.
Embark,v. t., To cause to go on board a vessel or boat; to put on shipboard.
Embase,v. t., To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate. 
Embeam,v. t., To make brilliant with beams.
Emblem,n., Inlay; inlaid or mosaic work; something ornamental inserted in a surface.
Embody,v. t., To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into a body, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one's ideas in a treatise. 
Emboil,v. i., To boil with anger; to effervesce.
Emboli,pl. , of Embolus
Emboly,n., Embolic invagination. See under Invagination.
Emboss,v. t., To arise the surface of into bosses or protuberances; particularly, to ornament with raised work. 
Embowl,v. t., To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to.
Embrew,v. t., To imbrue; to stain with blood.
Embrue,v. t., See Imbrue, Embrew. 
Embryo,n., The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant 
Embulk,v. t., To enlarge in the way of bulk.
Embush,v. t., To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush.
Embusy,v. t., To employ.
Emerge,v. i., To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in which anything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue and appear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emerges from behind the moon in an eclipse; to emerge from poverty or obscurity. 
Emeril,n., Emery.
Emesis,n., A vomiting.
Emetic,a., Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge its contents by the mouth.
Emeute,n., A seditious tumult; an outbreak.
Emigre,n., One of the natives of France who were opposed to the first Revolution, and who left their country in consequence. 
Emmove,v. t., To move; to rouse; to excite.
Emodin,n., An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained from the buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative of anthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei
Empair,v. t., To impair.
Empale,v. t., To make pale.
Empark,v. t., To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark. 
Empasm,n., A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor of sweat.
Empawn,v. t., To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn.
Empery,n., Empire; sovereignty; dominion.
Empire,n., Supreme power; sovereignty; sway; dominion.
Employ,v. t., To inclose; to infold.
Empugn,v. t., See Impugn.
Empuse,n., A phantom or specter.
Emrods,n. pl., See Emerods.
Emulge,v. t., To milk out; to drain.
Emyd//,pl. , of Emyd
Emydea,n. pl., A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh-water tortoises and terrapins.
Enable,v. t., To give strength or ability to; to make firm and strong.
Enamel,v. t., A variety of glass, used in ornament, to cover a surface, as of metal or pottery, and admitting of after decoration in color, or used itself for inlaying or application in varied colors. 
Enamor,v. t., To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, or with, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; to be enamored of books or science. 
Enarch,v. t., To arch.
Enbibe,v. t., To imbibe.
Encage,v. t., To confine in a cage; to coop up.
Encamp,v. i., To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporary habitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, or form huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an army or a company traveling. 
Encase,v. t., To inclose as in a case. See Incase.
Encash,v. t., To turn into cash; to cash.
Encave,v. t., To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess. 
Encore,adv. / interj., Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators of plays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetition of a particular part. 
Encowl,v. t., To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl
Encyst,v. t., To inclose in a cyst.
Ending,p. pr. & vb. n., of End
Endark,v. t., To darken.
Endear,v. t., To make dear or beloved.
Endict,v. t., See Indict.
Ending,n., Termination; concluding part; result; conclusion; destruction; death.
Endite,v. t., See Indite.
Endive,n., A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia
Endome,v. t., To cover as with a dome.
Endoss,v. t., To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the older spelling of endorse.
Endued,imp. & p. p., of Endue
Endure,v. i., To continue in the same state without perishing; to last; to remain.
Endyma,n., See Ependyma.
Energy,n., Internal or inherent power; capacity of acting, operating, or producing an effect, whether exerted or not; as, men possessing energies may suffer them to lie inactive. 
Enerve,v. t., To weaken; to enervate.
Enfect,a., Contaminated with illegality.
Enfire,v. t., To set on fire.
Enfold,v. t., To infold. See Infold.
Enform,v. t., To form; to fashion.
Enfree,v. t., To set free.
Engage,v. t., To put under pledge; to pledge; to place under obligations to do or forbear doing something, as by a pledge, oath, or promise; to bind by contract or promise. 
Engaol,v. t., To put in jail; to imprison.
Engild,v. t., To gild; to make splendent.
Engine,n., (Pronounced, in this sense, ////.
Engirt,, of Engird
Engird,v. t., To gird; to encompass.
Engirt,v. t., To engird.
Englue,v. t., To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer well englued. 
Englut,v. t., To swallow or gulp down.
Engore,v. t., To gore; to pierce; to lacerate.
Engulf,v. t., To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.
Enhalo,v. t., To surround with a halo.
Enhort,v. t., To encourage.
Enigma,n., A dark, obscure, or inexplicable saying; a riddle; a statement, the hidden meaning of which is to be discovered or guessed. 
Enjall,v. t., To put into jail; to imprison.
Enjoin,v. t., To lay upon, as an order or command; to give an injunction to; to direct with authority; to order; to charge. 
Enlace,v. t., To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; to encircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle. 
Enlard,v. t., To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten.
Enlimn,v. t., To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored and decorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript. 
Enlink,v. t., To chain together; to connect, as by links. 
Enlist,v. t., To enter on a list; to enroll; to register.
Enlive,v. t., To enliven.
Enlock,v. t., To lock; to inclose.
Enlute,v. t., To coat with clay; to lute.
Enmesh,v. t., To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes. 
Enmist,v. t., To infold, as in a mist. 
Enmity,n., The quality of being an enemy; hostile or unfriendly disposition.
Enmove,v. t., See Emmove.
Enmure,v. t., To immure.
Ennead,n., The number nine or a group of nine.
Ennuye,a., Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted.
Enodal,a., Without a node.
Enoint,a., Anointed.
Enopla,n. pl., One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presence of a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis. 
Enough,a., Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want; sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun to which it belongs. 
Enrace,v. t., To enroot; to implant.
Enrage,v. t., To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to make furious.
Enrank,v. t., To place in ranks or in order.
Enrapt,p. a., Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured.
Enrich,v. t., To make rich with any kind of wealth; to render opulent; to increase the possessions of; as, to enrich the understanding with knowledge. 
Enring,v. t., To encircle.
Enrive,v. t., To rive; to cleave.
Enrobe,v. t., To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire.
Enroll,n., To insert in a roil; to register or enter in a list or catalogue or on rolls of court; hence, to record; to insert in records; to leave in writing; as, to enroll men for service; to enroll a decree or a law; also, reflexively, to enlist. 
Enroot,v. t., To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep.
Ensafe,v. t., To make safe.
Ensate,a., Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform. 
Enseal,v. t., To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, to ratify. 
Enseam,v. t., To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain. 
Ensear,v. t., To sear; to dry up.
Enseel,v. t., To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk.
Ensign,n., A flag; a banner; a standard; esp., the national flag, or a banner indicating nationality, carried by a ship or a body of soldiers; -- as distinguished from flags indicating divisions of the army, rank of naval officers, or private signals, and the like. 
Ensoul,v. t., To indue or imbue (a body
Ensued,imp. & p. p., of Ensue
Ensure,v. t., To make sure. See Insure.
Entail,n., That which is entailed.
Entame,v. t., To tame.
Entend,v. i., To attend to; to apply one's self to.
Entice,v. t., To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense: To lead astray; to induce to evil; to tempt; as, the sirens enticed them to listen. 
Entire,a., Complete in all parts; undivided; undiminished; whole; full and perfect; not deficient; as, the entire control of a business; entire confidence, ignorance. 
Entity,n., A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception
Entoil,v. t., To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare.
Entomb,v. t., To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; to inhume. 
Entrap,v. t., To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap, by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch or involve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evil men. 
Entree,n., A coming in, or entrance; hence, freedom of access; permission or right to enter; as, to have the entree of a house. 
Entune,v. t., To tune; to intone.
Envier,n., One who envies; one who desires inordinately what another possesses.
Envies,pl. , of Envy
Envied,imp. & p. p., of Envy
Enwall,v. t., See Inwall.
Enwind,v. t., To wind about; to encircle.
Enwomb,v. t., To conceive in the womb.
Enwrap,v. t., To envelop. See Inwrap.
Enzyme,n., An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from an organized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment. Ptyalin, pepsin, diastase, and rennet are good examples of enzymes. 
Eocene,a., Pertaining to the first in time of the three subdivisions into which the Tertiary formation is divided by geologists, and alluding to the approximation in its life to that of the present era; as, Eocene deposits. 
Eolian,a., Aeolian.
Eozoic,a., Of or pertaining to rocks or strata older than the Paleozoic, in many of which the eozoon has been found. 
Eozoon,n., A peculiar structure found in the Archaean limestones of Canada and other regions. By some geologists it is believed to be a species of gigantic Foraminifera, but others consider it a concretion, without organic structure. 
Eparch,n., In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; in modern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy. 
Epaule,n., The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face and flank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder. 
Epeira,n., A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E. diadema
Ephors,pl. , of Ephor
Ephori,pl. , of Ephor
Ephyra,n., A stage in the development of discophorous medusae, when they first begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila. See Strobila. 
Epical,a., Epic.
Epigee,n., See Perigee.
Epizoa,pl. , of Epizoon
Epocha,n., See Epoch.
Epodic,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode. 
Eponym,n., Alt. of Eponyme
Epopee,n., Alt. of Epopoeia
Epulis,n., A hard tumor developed from the gums.
Equant,n., A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center of ann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called also eccentric equator.
Equate,v. t., To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such an allowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard of comparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments; to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances. 
Equery,n., Same as Equerry.
Equine,a., Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse. 
Equity,n., Equality of rights; natural justice or right; the giving, or desiring to give, to each man his due, according to reason, and the law of God to man; fairness in determination of conflicting claims; impartiality. 
Erased,imp. & p. p., of Erase
Eraser,n., One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or a piece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc. 
Erbium,n., A rare metallic element associated with several other rare elements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Symbol Er. Atomic weight 165.9. Its salts are rose-colored and give characteristic spectra. Its sesquioxide is called erbia.
Erebus,n., A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space through which the souls passed to Hades. See Milton's   Paradise Lost,   Book II., line 883. 
Eriach,n., Alt. of Eric
Eringo,n., The sea holly. See Eryngo.
Erinys,n., An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, conscience personified. 
Ermine,n., A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea
Ernest,n., See Earnest.
Eroded,imp. & p. p., of Erode
Erotic,a., Alt. of Erotical
Erring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Err
Errand,n., A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to be told or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbal message; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to do an errand. Also, one's purpose in going anywhere. 
Errant,a., Wandering; deviating from an appointed course, or from a direct path; roving. 
Errata,n. pl., See Erratum.
Erucae,pl. , of Eruca
Erucic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferous Mediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica
Eryngo,n., A plant of the genus Eryngium.
Escape,v., To flee from and avoid; to be saved or exempt from; to shun; to obtain security from; as, to escape danger. 
Escarp,n., The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, and opposed to counterscarp. 
Eschar,n., A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics. 
Eschew,a., To shun; to avoid, as something wrong, or from a feeling of distaste; to keep one's self clear of. 
Escort,n., A body of armed men to attend a person of distinction for the sake of affording safety when on a journey; one who conducts some one as an attendant; a guard, as of prisoners on a march; also, a body of persons, attending as a mark of respect or honor; -- applied to movements on land, as convoy is to movements at sea. 
Escout,n., See Scout.
Escrod,n., See Scrod, a young cod. 
Escrol,n., Alt. of Escroll
Escrow,n., A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a third person, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition is performed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee. 
Eskimo,n., One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland. In many respects the Eskimos resemble the Mongolian race.
Esloin,v. t., To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign.
Esnecy,n., A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose first after an inheritance is divided.
Esodic,a., Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to the spinal cord; -- said of certain nerves. Opposed to exodic.
Esopic,a., Same as Aesopian, Aesopic. 
Espace,n., Space.
Espial,n., The act of espying; notice; discovery.
Espier,n., One who espies.
Esprit,n., Spirit.
Espied,imp. & p. p., of Espy
Espies,pl. , of Espy
Essays,pl. , of Essay
Essene,n., One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior, remarkable for their strictness and abstinence. 
Essoin,n., Alt. of Essoign
Estate,n., Settled condition or form of existence; state; condition or circumstances of life or of any person; situation.
Esteem,v. t., To set a value on; to appreciate the worth of; to estimate; to value; to reckon.
Estray,v. i., To stray.
Estufa,n., An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians.
Esture,n., Commotion.
Etched,imp. & p. p., of Etch
Etcher,n., One who etches.
Eterne,a., Eternal.
Ethane,n., A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinary illuminating gas. It is the second member of the paraffin series, and its most important derivatives are common alcohol, aldehyde, ether, and acetic acid. Called also dimethyl. 
Ethene,n., Ethylene; olefiant gas.
Ethics,n., The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn from this science; a particular system of principles and rules concerting duty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a single class of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medical ethics. 
Ethide,n., Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide. 
Ethine,n., Acetylene.
Ethiop,n., Alt. of Ethiopian
Ethnic,a., Alt. of Ethnical
Ethule,, Ethyl.
Etnean,a., Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily. 
Etoile,n., See Estoile.
Etymic,a., Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word. 
Etymon,n., An original form; primitive word; root.
Euchre,n., A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or four persons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Joker is used
Euclid,n., A Greek geometer of the 3d century b. c.; also, his treatise on geometry, and hence, the principles of geometry, in general. 
Eugeny,, Nobleness of birth.
Eulogy,n., A speech or writing in commendation of the character or services of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth. 
Eunomy,n., Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government. 
Eunuch,n., A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a class of such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women's apartments. Some of them, in former times, gained high official rank. 
Eureka,, The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to have cried out   Eureka! eureka!   (I have found it! I have found it!
Eutaxy,n., Good or established order or arrangement.
Evaded,imp. & p. p., of Evade
Evanid,a., Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as, evanid color. 
Evened,imp. & p. p., of Even
Evener,n., One who, or that which makes even. 
Evenly,adv., With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness, elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably; impartially; serenely. 
Everse,v. t., To overthrow or subvert.
Evilly,adv., In an evil manner; not well; ill.
Evince,v. t., To conquer; to subdue.
Evoked,imp. & p. p., of Evoke
Evolve,v. t., To unfold or unroll; to open and expand; to disentangle and exhibit clearly and satisfactorily; to develop; to derive; to educe.
Evomit,v. t., To vomit.
Examen,a., Examination; inquiry.
Exarch,n., A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of the Byzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over several monasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch , who visits the clergy, investigates ecclesiastical cases, etc. 
Excamb,v. t., Alt. of Excambie
Excave,v. t., To excavate.
Exceed,v. t., To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit or measure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a bad sense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power, skill, etc.; one offender exceeds another in villainy; his rank exceeds yours. 
Except,v. t., To take or leave out (anything
Excern,v. t., To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids are excerned in perspiration. 
Excerp,a., To pick out.
Excess,n., The state of surpassing or going beyond limits; the being of a measure beyond sufficiency, necessity, or duty; that which exceeds what is usual or prover; immoderateness; superfluity; superabundance; extravagance; as, an excess of provisions or of light. 
Excide,v. t., To cut off.
Excise,n., In inland duty or impost operating as an indirect tax on the consumer, levied upon certain specified articles, as, tobacco, ale, spirits, etc., grown or manufactured in the country. It is also levied to pursue certain trades and deal in certain commodities. Certain direct taxes (as, in England, those on carriages, servants, plate, armorial bearings, etc.
Excite,v. t., To call to activity in any way; to rouse to feeling; to kindle to passionate emotion; to stir up to combined or general activity; as, to excite a person, the spirits, the passions; to excite a mutiny or insurrection; to excite heat by friction. 
Excoct,v. t., To boil out; to produce by boiling.
Excuse,v. t., To free from accusation, or the imputation of fault or blame; to clear from guilt; to release from a charge; to justify by extenuating a fault; to exculpate; to absolve; to acquit. 
Excuss,v. t., To shake off; to discard.
Exedra,n., A room in a public building, furnished with seats. 
Exempt,a., Cut off; set apart.
Exequy,n., A funeral rite (usually in the plural
Exeunt,, They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all except Hamlet. See 1st Exit. 
Exaled,imp. & p. p., of Exhale
Exhale,v. t., To breathe out. Hence: To emit, as vapor; to send out, as an odor; to evaporate; as, the earth exhales vapor; marshes exhale noxious effluvia. 
Exhort,v. t., To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments, as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; to urge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution. 
Exhume,v. t., To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; to disinter.
Exiled,imp. & p. p., of Exile
Exilic,a., Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews in Babylon. 
Exodic,a., Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said of the motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic.
Exodus,n., A going out; particularly (the Exodus
Exogen,n., A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetable kingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c wood bark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, and increasing, if at all, by the animal addition of a new layer to the outside next to the bark. The leaves are commonly netted-veined, and the number of cotyledons is two, or, very rarely, several in a whorl. Cf. Endogen. 
Exolve,v. t., To loose; to pay.
Exotic,a., Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous; foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word. 
Expand,v. t., To lay open by extending; to open wide; to spread out; to diffuse; as, a flower expands its leaves. 
Expect,v. t., To wait for; to await.
Expede,v. t., To expedite; to hasten.
Expend,v. t., To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; to use up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend; as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor, and thought; to expend hay in feeding cattle, oil in a lamp, water in mechanical operations. 
Expert,a., Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; having facility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and ready from much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expert in chess or archery. 
Expire,v. t., To breathe out; to emit from the lungs; to throw out from the mouth or nostrils in the process of respiration; -- opposed to inspire.
Expiry,n., Expiration.
Explat,v. t., Alt. of Explate
Expone,v. t., To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil. 
Export,v. t., To carry away; to remove.
Expose,v. t., To set forth; to set out to public view; to exhibit; to show; to display; as, to expose goods for sale; to expose pictures to public inspection. 
Expugn,v. t., To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, to expugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments. 
Exsect,v. t., A cutting out or away.
Exsert,a., Alt. of Exserted
Extacy,n., See Ecstasy.
Extant,a., Standing out or above any surface; protruded.
Extasy,n. & v. t., See Ecstasy, n. & v. t. 
Extend,v. t., To stretch out; to prolong in space; to carry forward or continue in length; as, to extend a line in surveying; to extend a cord across the street. 
Extent,a., Extended.
Extern,a., External; outward; not inherent.
Extill,v. i., To drop or distill.
Extine,n., The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants.
Extirp,v. t., To extirpate.
Extort,v. t., To wrest from an unwilling person by physical force, menace, duress, torture, or any undue or illegal exercise of power or ingenuity; to wrench away (from
Extras,pl. , of Extra
Exuded,imp. & p. p., of Exude
Exuvia,, n. sing. of Exuviae.
Eyalet,n., Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet. 
Eyebar,n., A bar with an eye at one or both ends.
Eyecup,n., A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fit the orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquid remedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass. 
Eyeful,a., Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable.
Eyelet,n., A small hole or perforation to receive a cord or fastener, as in garments, sails, etc. 
Eyelid,n., The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with which an animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure.
Eyghen,n. pl., Eyes.
Eyliad,n., See /iliad.
Eysell,n., Same as Eisel.
Fabian,a., Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest. 
Fabled,imp. & p. p., of Fable
Fabler,n., A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods.
Fabric,n., The structure of anything; the manner in which the parts of a thing are united; workmanship; texture; make; as cloth of a beautiful fabric.
Facade,n., The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use. 
Facing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Face
Facete,a., Facetious; witty; humorous.
Facial,a., Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve. 
Facies,n., The anterior part of the head; the face.
Facile,a., Easy to be done or performed: not difficult; performable or attainable with little labor.
Facing,n., A covering in front, for ornament or other purpose; an exterior covering or sheathing; as, the facing of an earthen slope, sea wall, etc. , to strengthen it or to protect or adorn the exposed surface. 
Factor,n., One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker. 
Factum,n., A man's own act and deed
Facund,a., Eloquent.
Faddle,v. i., To trifle; to toy.
Fading,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fade
Faecal,a., See Fecal.
Faeces,n.pl., Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation. 
Faffle,v. i., To stammer.
Fagged,imp. & p. p., of Fag
Fagend,n., An end of poorer quality, or in a spoiled condition, as the coarser end of a web of cloth, the untwisted end of a rope, ect. 
Failed,imp. & p. p., of Fail
Faille,n., A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy. 
Faints,n.pl., The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. This crude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil. 
Fainty,a., Feeble; languid.
Fairly,adv., In a fair manner; clearly; openly; plainly; fully; distinctly; frankly.
Falcer,n., One of the mandibles of a spider.
Falcon,n., One of a family (Falconidae
Fallen,p. p., of Fall
Fallax,n., Cavillation; a caviling.
Fallen,a., Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead.
Faller,n., One who, or that which, falls. 
Fallow,a., Pale red or pale yellow; as, a fallow deer or greyhound. 
Falser,n., A deceiver.
Falter,v. t., To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley. 
Faluns,n., A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision. 
Famble,v. i., To stammer.
Faming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fame
Family,v. t., The collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the case may be, lodgers or boarders. 
Famine,n., General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions; destitution.
Famish,v. t., To starve, kill, or destroy with hunger. 
Famous,a., Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate. 
Fanned,imp. & p. p., of Fan
Fanega,n., A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1/ to 2/ bushels; also, a measure of land. 
Fanged,a., Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also used figuratively. 
Fangle,v. t., Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; a trifling ornament.
Fangot,n., A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight. 
Fanion,n., A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of a brigade.
Fannel,n., Same as Fanon.
Fanner,n., One who fans.
Fantom,n., See Phantom.
Faquir,n., See Fakir.
Farand,n., See Farrand, n. 
Farced,imp. & p. p., of Farce
Farcin,n., Same as Farcy.
Fardel,n., A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden. 
Faring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fare
Farfet,p. p., Farfetched.
Farina,n., A fine flour or meal made from cereal grains or from the starch or fecula of vegetables, extracted by various processes, and used in cookery. 
Farlie,n., An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly.
Farmed,imp. & p. p., of Farm
Farmer,n., One who farms
Farrow,n., A little of pigs.
Farfow,v. t. & i., To bring forth (young
Farrow,a., Not producing young in a given season or year; -- said only of cows.
Fasces,pl., A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority. 
Fascet,n., A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- called also pontee and punty. 
Fascia,n., A band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller. 
Fashed,imp. & p. p., of Fash
Fasted,imp. & p. p., of Fast
Fasten,a., To fix firmly; to make fast; to secure, as by a knot, lock, bolt, etc.; as, to fasten a chain to the feet; to fasten a door or window. 
Faster,n., One who abstains from food.
Fastly,adv., Firmly; surely.
Fatted,imp. & p. p., of Fat
atting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fat
Father,n., One who has begotten a child, whether son or daughter; a generator; a male parent. 
Fathom,n., A measure of length, containing six feet; the space to which a man can extend his arms; -- used chiefly in measuring cables, cordage, and the depth of navigable water by soundings. 
Fatner,n., One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener.
Fatten,v. t., To make fat; to feed for slaughter; to make fleshy or plump with fat; to fill full; to fat.
Faucal,a., Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial; esp., (Phon.
Fauces,n.pl., The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage two membranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose the tonsils. 
Faucet,n., A fixture for drawing a liquid, as water, molasses, oil, etc., from a pipe, cask, or other vessel, in such quantities as may be desired; -- called also tap, and cock. It consists of a tubular spout, stopped with a movable plug, spigot, valve, or slide. 
Faulty,a., Containing faults, blemishes, or defects; imperfect; not fit for the use intended. 
Faunal,a., Relating to fauna.
Faunus,n., See Faun.
Fausen,n., A young eel.
Fautor,n., A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; an abettor.
Fauces,pl. , of Faux
Favose,a., Honeycombed. See Faveolate.
Fawned,imp. & p. p., of Fawn
Fawner,n., One who fawns; a sycophant.
Faying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fay
Feague,v. t., To beat or whip; to drive.
Fealty,n., Fidelity to one's lord; the feudal obligation by which the tenant or vassal was bound to be faithful to his lord; the special oath by which this obligation was assumed; fidelity to a superior power, or to a government; loyality. It is no longer the practice to exact the performance of fealty, as a feudal obligation. 
Feared,imp. & p. p., of Fear
Fearer,n., One who fars.
Featly,a., Neatly; dexterously; nimbly.
Feazed,imp. & p. p., of Feaze
Fecche,v. t., To fetch.
Fecial,a., Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties of peace; as, fecial law. 
Fecula,n., Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence. 
Fecund,a., Fruitful in children; prolific.
Fedary,n., A feodary.
Fedity,n., Turpitude; vileness.
Feeing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fee
Feeble,superl., Deficient in physical strength; weak; infirm; debilitated.
Feebly,adv., In a feeble manner.
Feeder,n., One who, or that which, gives food or supplies nourishment; steward. 
Feejee,a. & n., See Fijian.
Feeler,n., One who, or that which, feels. 
Fehmic,a., See Vehmic.
Feline,a., Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidae; as, the feline race; feline voracity. 
Felled,imp. & p. p., of Fell
Fellah,n., A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc. 
Feller,n., One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees. 
Felloe,n., See Felly.
Fellon,n., Variant of Felon.
Fellow,n., A companion; a comrade; an associate; a partner; a sharer.
Felony,n., An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture.
Felted,imp. & p. p., of Felt
Felter,v. t., To clot or mat together like felt.
Feltry,n., See Felt, n. 
Female,n., An individual of the sex which conceives and brings forth young, or (in a wider sense
Femora,pl. , of Femur
Fencer,n., One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencing with sword or foil.
Fended,imp. & p. p., of Fend
Fender,v. t. & i., One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm
Fenian,n., A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule in ireland. 
Fennec,n., A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda
Fennel,n., A perennial plant of the genus Faeniculum (F. vulgare
Feodal,a., Feudal. See Feudal.
Feofor,n., Alt. of Feoffer
Feriae,pl. , of Feria
Ferial,n., Same as Feria.
Ferier,a., compar. of Fere, fierce. 
Ferine,a., Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears are ferine beasts. 
Ferity,n., Wildness; savageness; fierceness.
Ferous,a., Wild; savage.
Ferrer,a. & adv., compar. of Fer.
Ferret,n., An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela / Putorius furo
Ferric,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.
Ferthe,a., Fourth.
Ferula,n., A ferule.
Ferule,n., A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment. 
Fervid,a., Very hot; burning; boiling.
Fervor,n., Heat; excessive warmth.
Fescue,n., A straw, wire, stick, etc., used chiefly to point out letters to children when learning to read. 
Fesels,n. pl., See Phasel.
Festal,a., Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive.
Fester,n., To generate pus; to become imflamed and suppurate; as, a sore or a wound festers. 
Festue,n., A straw; a fescue.
Feting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fete
Fetich,n., Alt. of Fetish
Fetish,n., A material object supposed among certain African tribes to represent in such a way, or to be so connected with, a supernatural being, that the possession of it gives to the possessor power to control that being. 
Fetter,n., A chain or shackle for the feet; a chain by which an animal is confined by the foot, either made fast or disabled from free and rapid motion; a bond; a shackle. 
Fettle,a., To repair; to prepare; to put in order.
Fetwah,n., A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law.
Feudal,a., Of or pertaining to feuds, fiefs, or feels; as, feudal rights or services; feudal tenures. 
feuter,v. t., To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear. 
Fevery,a., Feverish.
Fewmet,n., See Fumet.
Fiacre,n., A kind of French hackney coach.
Fiance,v. t., To betroth; to affiance.
Fiants,n., The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger. 
Fiasco,n., A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking. 
Fiaunt,n., Commission; fiat; order; decree.
Fibbed,imp. & p. p., of Fib
Fibber,n., One who tells fibs.
Fibred,a., Having fibers; made up of fibers.
Fibril,n., A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; a fibrilla.
Fibrin,n., A white, albuminous, fibrous substance, formed in the coagulation of the blood either by decomposition of fibrinogen, or from the union of fibrinogen and paraglobulin which exist separately in the blood. It is insoluble in water, but is readily digestible in gastric and pancreatic juice. 
Fibula,n., A brooch, clasp, or buckle. 
Fickle,a., Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel. 
Fickly,adv., In a fickle manner.
Ficoes,pl. , of Fico
Fictor,n., An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in any plastic material.
Fiddle,n., A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; a kit.
Fidget,v. i., To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts. 
Fieldy,a., Open, like a field. 
Fierce,superl., Furious; violent; unrestrained; impetuous; as, a fierce wind. 
fifing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fife
Figaro,n., An adroit and unscrupulous intriguer.
Figary,n., A frolic; a vagary; a whim.
Figent,a., Fidgety; restless.
Figgum,n., A juggler's trick; conjuring.
Fought,imp. & p. p., of Fight
Figure,n., The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance.
Fijian,a., Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.
Filing,p. pr. & vb. n., of File
Filial,a., Of or pertaining to a son or daughter; becoming to a child in relation to his parents; as, filial obedience. 
Filing,n., A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as, iron filings. 
Filled,imp. & p. p., of Fill
Filler,n., One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling. 
Fillet,n., A little band, especially one intended to encircle the hair of the head. 
Fillip,v. t., To strike with the nail of the finger, first placed against the ball of the thumb, and forced from that position with a sudden spring; to snap with the finger. 
Filose,a., Terminating in a threadlike process.
Filter,n., Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from the solid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or device containing such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device for purifying air. 
Filthy,superl., Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty; polluted; foul; impure; obscene. 
Finble,, Alt. of Fimble hemp
Fimble,, Light summer hemp, that bears no seed. 
Finned,imp. & p. p., of Fin
Finale,n., Close; termination
Finary,n., See Finery.
Fishes,pl. , of Finch
Finder,n., One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.
Fining,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fine
Fineer,v. i., To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit. 
Finely,adv., In a fine or finished manner.
Finery,n., Fineness; beauty.
Finger,n., One of the five terminating members of the hand; a digit; esp., one of the four extermities of the hand, other than the thumb. 
Finial,n., The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that forms the upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes, the pinnacle itself. 
Finify,a., To make fine; to dress finically.
Fining,n., The act of imposing a fin/.
Finish,v. t., To arrive at the end of; to bring to an end; to put an end to; to make an end of; to terminate.
Finite,a., Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration. 
Finlet,n., A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin.
Finnan,, Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron. fin  an
Finned,a., Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. 
Finner,n., A finback whale.
Finnic,a., Of or pertaining to the Finns.
Fiorin,n., A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba
Fipple,n., A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music. 
Firing,n., The act of disharging firearms.
Firkin,n., A varying measure of capacity, usually being the fourth part of a barrel; specifically, a measure equal to nine imperial gallons. 
Firlot,n., A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of a boll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to the imperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000.
Firman,n., In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection and assistance. 
Firmly,adv., In a firm manner.
Fiscal,a., Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.
Fishes,pl. , of Fish
Fished,imp. & p. p., of Fish
Fisher,n., One who fishes.
Fisted,imp. & p. p., of Fist
Fistic,a., Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists; puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes. 
Fitted,imp. & p. p., of Fit
Fitche,a., Sharpened to a point; pointed.
Fitchy,a., Having fitches or vetches.
Fitful,a., Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.
Fithel,n., Alt. of Fithul
Fithul,n., A fiddle.
Fitter,n., One who fits or makes to fit;
Fixing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fix
Fixity,n., Fixedness; as, fixity of tenure; also, that which is fixed. 
Fixure,n., Fixed position; stable condition; firmness.
Fizgig,n., A fishgig.
Fizzed,imp. & p. p., of Fizz
Fizzle,v. i., To make a hissing sound.
Flabby,a., Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh. 
Flabel,n., A fan.
Flaggy,a., Weak; flexible; limber.
Flagon,n., A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying liquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather or stoneware rather than of glass. 
Flaily,a., Acting like a flail.
Flaked,imp. & p. p., of Flake
Flamed,imp. & p. p., of Flame
Flamen,n., A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom he received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis, Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis. 
Flanch,n., A flange.
Flange,n., An external or internal rib, or rim, for strength, as the flange of an iron beam; or for a guide, as the flange of a car wheel (see Car wheel.
Flared,imp. & p. p., of Flare
Flashy,a., Dazzling for a moment; making a momentary show of brilliancy; transitorily bright.
Flatly,adv., In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully; frigidly; peremptorily; positively, plainly. 
Flatus,pl. , of Flatus
Flaunt,v. i., To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as, a flaunting show. 
Flauto,n., A flute.
Flavin,n., A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron. 
Flavol,n., A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone, and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it. 
Flavor,n., That quality of anything which affects the smell; odor; fragrances; as, the flavor of a rose. 
Flawed,imp. & p. p., of Flaw
Flaxen,a., Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color of flax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax or tow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair. 
Flayed,imp. & p. p., of Flay
Flayer,n., One who strips off the skin.
Fleagh,, imp. of Fly.
Fleamy,a., Bloody; clotted.
Fleche,n., A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salient angle pointing outward and open at the gorge. 
Fledge,v. i., Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly.
Fleece,n., The entire coat of wood that covers a sheep or other similar animal; also, the quantity shorn from a sheep, or animal, at one time. 
Fleecy,a., Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece. 
Fleigh,, imp. of Fly.
Flemer,n., One who, or that which, banishes or expels. 
Flench,v. t., Same as Flence.
Flense,v. t., To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc. 
Fleshy,superl., Full of, or composed of, flesh; plump; corpulent; fat; gross. 
Fletch,v. t., To feather, as an arrow. 
Fleury,a., Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis; -- said esp. of a cross so decorated.
Flewed,a., Having large flews.
Flexed,imp. & p. p., of Flex
Flexor,n., A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of the arm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor. 
Flidge,a., Fledged; fledge.
Flight,n., The act or flying; a passing through the air by the help of wings; volitation; mode or style of flying.
Flimsy,superl., Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity; of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility; as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection. 
Flinch,v. i., To withdraw from any suffering or undertaking, from pain or danger; to fail in doing or perserving; to show signs of yielding or of suffering; to shrink; to wince; as, one of the parties flinched from the combat. 
Flinty,superl., Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint; as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart. 
Flitch,n., The side of a hog salted and cured; a side of bacon.
Flitty,a., Unstable; fluttering.
Floaty,a., Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light.
Flocci,pl. , of Floccus
Flocky,a., Abounding with flocks; floccose.
Flukan,n., See Flucan.
Flooky,a., Fluky.
Floppy,n., Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim. 
Floral,a., Pertaining to Flora, or to flowers; made of flowers; as, floral games, wreaths. 
Floran,n., Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone; tin ore stamped very fine.
Floren,n., A cerain gold coin; a Florence.
Floret,n., A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers which compose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion. 
Florid,a., Covered with flowers; abounding in flowers; flowery.
Florin,n., A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century, and noted for its beauty. The name is given to different coins in different countries. The florin of England, first minted in 1849, is worth two shillings, or about 48 cents; the florin of the Netherlands, about 40 cents; of Austria, about 36 cents. 
Flossy,a., Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light; downy. 
Floury,a., Of or resembling flour; mealy; covered with flour.
Flowed,imp. & p. p., of Flow
Flowen,, imp. pl. of Fly, v. i. 
Flower,n., In the popular sense, the bloom or blossom of a plant; the showy portion, usually of a different color, shape, and texture from the foliage. 
Floxed,, See Floss silk, under Floss. 
Floyte,n. & v., A variant of Flute.
Fluate,n., A fluoride.
Flucan,n., Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it. 
Fluent,a., Flowing or capable of flowing; liquid; glodding; easily moving.
Fluffy,superl., Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy. 
Flugel,n., A grand piano or a harpsichord, both being wing-shaped. 
Flukan,n., Flucan.
Flunky,n., A contemptuous name for a liveried servant or a footman.
Flurry,n., A sudden and brief blast or gust; a light, temporary breeze; as, a flurry of wind. 
Fluted,imp. & p. p., of Flute
Fluter,n., One who plays on the flute; a flutist or flautist.
Fluxed,imp. & p. p., of Flux
Flying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fly
Flymen,pl. , of Flyman
Flyman,n., The driver of a fly, or light public carriage. 
Flysch,n., A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlying the true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the Eocene Tertiary. 
Foaled,imp. & p. p., of Foal
Foamed,imp. & p. p., of Foam
Fobbed,imp. & p. p., of Fob
Fodder,n., A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 19/ to 24 cwt.; a fother. 
Foemen,pl. , of Foeman
Foeman,n., An enemy in war.
Foetal,a., Same as Fetal.
Foetor,n., Same as Fetor.
Foetus,n., Same as Fetus.
Fogged,imp. & p. p., of Fog
Fo'gey,n., See Fogy.
Fogies,pl. , of Fogy
Fohist,n., A Buddhist priest. See Fo.
Foible,a., Weak; feeble.
Foiled,imp. & p. p., of Foil
Foiler,n., One who foils or frustrates.
Foison,n., Rich harvest; plenty; abundance.
Foisty,a., Fusty; musty.
Folded,imp. & p. p., of Fold
Folder,n., One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelike instrument used for folding paper. 
Foliar,a., Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages. 
Folier,n., Goldsmith's foil.
Folily,a., Foolishly.
Folios,pl. , of Folio
Fol'io,v. t., To put a serial number on each folio or page of (a book
Folium,n., A leaf, esp. a thin leaf or plate. 
Follow,v. t., To go or come after; to move behind in the same path or direction; hence, to go with (a leader, guide, etc.
Foment,v. t., To apply a warm lotion to; to bathe with a cloth or sponge wet with warm water or medicated liquid.
Fondle,v., To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; to caress; as, a nurse fondles a child. 
Fondly,adv., Foolishly.
Fondon,n., A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation.
Fondus,n., A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which the colors are in bands and graduated into each other. 
Fontal,a., Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive. 
Fooled,imp. & p. p., of Fool
Footed,imp. & p. p., of Foot
Forage,n., The act of foraging; search for provisions, etc. 
Forbid,, of Forbid
Forced,imp. & p. p., of Force
Forcer,n., One who, or that which, forces or drives. 
Forcut,v. t., To cut completely; to cut off.
Forded,imp. & p. p., of Ford
Fordry,a., Entirely dry; withered.
Foreby,prep., Near; hard by; along; past. See Forby.
Forego,v. t., To quit; to relinquish; to leave.
Forein,a., Foreign.
Forest,n., An extensive wood; a large tract of land covered with trees; in the United States, a wood of native growth, or a tract of woodland which has never been cultivated. 
Forfex,n., A pair of shears.
Forged,imp. & p. p., of Forge
Forger,n. & v. t., One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier. 
Forgot,imp., of Forget
Forgat,, of Forget
Forgot,, of Forget
Forget,v. t., To lose the remembrance of; to let go from the memory; to cease to have in mind; not to think of; also, to lose the power of; to cease from doing. 
Forgot,, imp. & p. p. of Forget.
Forked,imp. & p. p., of Fork
Forlay,v. t., To lie in wait for; to ambush.
Forlet,v. t., To give up; to leave; to abandon.
Forlie,v. i., See Forelie.
Forlye,v. i., Same as Forlie.
Formed,imp. & p. p., of Form
Formal,n., See Methylal.
Formed,a., Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars. 
Former,n., One who forms; a maker; a creator.
Formic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in an extended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as, formic ether. 
Formyl,n., A univalent radical, H.C:O, regarded as the essential residue of formic acid and aldehyde. 
Fornix,n., An arch or fold; as, the fornix, or vault, of the cranium; the fornix, or reflection, of the conjuctiva. 
Forold,a., Very old.
Forray,v. t., To foray; to ravage; to pillage.
Forsay,v. t., To forbid; to renounce; to forsake; to deny.
Forted,a., Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended, as by forts. 
Forthy,adv., Therefore.
Fortin,n., A little fort; a fortlet.
Forums,pl. , of Forum
Forwhy,conj., Wherefore; because.
Forwot,, pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete.
FossAe,pl. , of Fossa
Fosset,n., A faucet.
Fossil,a., Dug out of the earth; as, fossil coal; fossil salt. 
Foster,v. t., To feed; to nourish; to support; to bring up.
Fother,n., A wagonload; a load of any sort.
Fotive,a., Nourishing.
Fotmal,n., Seventy pounds of lead.
Fought,, imp. & p. p. of Fight.
Fouled,imp. & p. p., of Foul
Foully,v., In a foul manner; filthily; nastily; shamefully; unfairly; dishonorably.
Fourbe,n., A trickly fellow; a cheat.
Fourth,a., Next in order after the third; the ordinal of four.
Foussa,n., A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox
Fouter,n., A despicable fellow.
Foutra,n., A fig; -- a word of contempt.
Foveae,pl. , of Fovea
Fowled,imp. & p. p., of Fowl
Fowler,n., A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food. 
Foxing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fox
Fracas,v. t., An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl.
Fracho,n., A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed.
Fracid,a., Rotten from being too ripe; overripe.
Foxery,n., Behavior like that of a fox; cunning.
Foxish,a., Foxlike.
Foyson,n., See Foison.
Fraena,pl. , of Frenum
Frenum,n., A connecting fold of membrane serving to support or restrain any part; as, the fraenum of the tongue. 
Fragor,n., A loud and sudden sound; the report of anything bursting; a crash.
Fraise,n., A large and thick pancake, with slices of bacon in it. 
Fraken,n., A freckle.
Framed,imp. & p. p., of Frame
Framer,n., One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers of the Constitution. 
Frater,n., A monk; also, a frater house. 
Fraxin,n., A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus
Frayed,imp. & p. p., of Fray
Freely,adv., In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly; gratuitously.
Freeze,n., A frieze.
Frozen,p. p., of Freeze
Freeze,v. i., To become congealed by cold; to be changed from a liquid to a solid state by the abstraction of heat; to be hardened into ice or a like solid body.
Frelte,n., Frailty.
Fremed,a., Strange; foreign.
French,a., Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants.
Frenum,n., A cheek stripe of color.
Frenzy,n., Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction; violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness; rage.
Fresco,a., A cool, refreshing state of the air; duskiness; coolness; shade. 
Fretty,a., Adorned with fretwork.
Fretum,n., A strait, or arm of the sea. 
Friary,n., Like a friar; pertaining to friars or to a convent.
Frible,a., Frivolous; trifling; sily.
Friday,n., The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday. 
Fridge,n., To rub; to fray.
Friend,n., One who entertains for another such sentiments of esteem, respect, and affection that he seeks his society aud welfare; a wellwisher; an intimate associate; sometimes, an attendant. 
Friese,n., Same as Friesic, n. 
Frieze,n., That part of the entablature of an order which is between the architrave and cornice. It is a flat member or face, either uniform or broken by triglyphs, and often enriched with figures and other ornaments of sculpture. 
Frigga,n., The wife of Odin and mother of the gods; the supreme goddess; the Juno of the Valhalla. Cf. Freya.
Fright,n., A state of terror excited by the sudden appearance of danger; sudden and violent fear, usually of short duration; a sudden alarm. 
Frigid,a., Cold; wanting heat or warmth; of low temperature; as, a frigid climate. 
Fringe,n., An ornamental appendage to the border of a piece of stuff, originally consisting of the ends of the warp, projecting beyond the woven fabric; but more commonly made separate and sewed on, consisting sometimes of projecting ends, twisted or plaited together, and sometimes of loose threads of wool, silk, or linen, or narrow strips of leather, or the like. 
Fringy,a., Aborned with fringes.
Frisky,a., Inclined to frisk; frolicsome; gay.
Frithy,a., Woody.
Frizel,a., A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock. 
Frizzy,a., Curled or crisped; as, frizzly, hair. 
Froggy,a., Abounding in frogs.
Froise,n., A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise.
Frolic,a., Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry. 
Fronde,n., A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV., who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party. 
Frosty,a., Attended with, or producing, frost; having power to congeal water; cold; freezing; as, a frosty night. 
Frothy,superl., Full of foam or froth, or consisting of froth or light bubbles; spumous; foamy. 
Frouzy,a., Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell or sight; slovenly; dingy. See Frowzy. 
Frower,n., A tool. See 2d Frow.
Frowey,a., Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber. 
Frowny,a., Frowning; scowling.
Frowzy,a., Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy.
Frozen,a., Congealed with cold; affected by freezing; as, a frozen brook. 
Frugal,n., Economical in the use or appropriation of resources; not wasteful or lavish; wise in the expenditure or application of force, materials, time, etc.; characterized by frugality; sparing; economical; saving; as, a frugal housekeeper; frugal of time. 
Frusta,pl. , of Frustum
Frutex,n., A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; a shrub. 
Frying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fry
Fucate,a., Alt. of Fucated
Fucoid,a., Properly, belonging to an order of alga: (Fucoideae
Fudder,n., See Fodder, a weight. 
Fuddle,v. t., To make foolish by drink; to cause to become intoxicated.
Fudged,imp. & p. p., of Fudge
Fueler,n., One who, or that which, supplies fuel. 
Fugacy,n., Banishment.
Fugato,a., in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue. 
Fulahs,n. pl., Alt. of Foolahs
Fulcra,n. pl., See Fulcrum.
Fulgid,a., Shining; glittering; dazzling.
Fulgor,n., Dazzling brightness; splendor.
Fulham,n., A false die.
Fulled,imp. & p. p., of Full
Fullam,n., A false die. See Fulham.
Fuller,v. t., One whose occupation is to full cloth.
Fulmar,n., One of several species of sea birds, of the family procellariidae, allied to the albatrosses and petrels. Among the well-known species are the arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis
Fulvid,a., Fulvous.
Fumade,v. i., Alt. of Fumado
Fumado,v. i., A salted and smoked fish, as the pilchard. 
Fumage,n., Hearth money.
Fumble,v. i., To feel or grope about; to make awkward attempts to do or find something.
Fuming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fume
Fumify,v. t., To subject to the action of smoke.
Fumlly,adv., Smokily; with fume.
Fuming,a., Producing fumes, or vapors. 
Famish,a., Smoky; hot; choleric.
Fummel,n., A hinny.
Fumous,a., Producing smoke; smoky.
Funded,imp. & p. p., of Fund
Fundus,n., The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of the bladder; the fundus of the eye. 
Funest,a., Lamentable; doleful.
Fungal,a., Of or pertaining to fungi.
Fungia,n., A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a mushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter. 
Fungic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid. 
Fungin,n., A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and mushrooms.
Fungus,n., Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each. 
Funnel,v. t., A vessel of the shape of an inverted hollow cone, terminating below in a pipe, and used for conveying liquids into a close vessel; a tunnel. 
Furred,imp. & p. p., of Fur
Furdle,v. t., To draw up into a bundle; to roll up.
Furfur,n., Scurf; dandruff.
Furial,a., Furious; raging; tormenting.
Furies,n. pl., See Fury, 3. 
Furile,n., A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O
Furoin,n., A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol. 
Furore,n., Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm.
Furrow,n., A trench in the earth made by, or as by, a plow. 
Furies,pl. , of Fury
Furzen,a., Furzy; gorsy.
Fusain,n., Fine charcoal of willow wood, used as a drawing implement. 
Fuscin,n., A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal epithelium; a variety of melanin. 
Fusing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Fuse
Fusile,a., Same as Fusil, a. 
Fusion,v. t., The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the act of melting together; as, the fusion of metals. 
Fusome,a., Handy; reat; handsome; notable.
Fussed,imp. & p. p., of Fuss
Fusted,a., Moldy; ill-smelling.
Fustet,n., The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is not durable without a mordant. 
Fustic,n., The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic. 
Futile,v. t., Talkative; loquacious; tattling.
Future,v. i., That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present. 
Fuzzle,v. t., To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle.
Fyllot,n., A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a common ornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika. 
Gabber,n., A liar; a deceiver.
Gabble,v. i., To talk fast, or to talk without meaning; to prate; to jabber. 
Gabbro,n., A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage
Gabert,n., A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation. 
Gabion,n., A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire. 
Gablet,n., A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc. 
Gadded,imp. & p. p., of Gad
Gadbee,n., The gadfly.
Gadder,n., One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip. 
Gadere,v. t. & i., Alt. of Gadre
Gadfly,n., Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies. 
Gadman,n., A gadsman.
Gadoid,a., Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidae
Gaduin,n., A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil. 
Gaelic,a., Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language. 
Gaffed,imp. & p. p., of Gaff
Gaffer,n., An old fellow; an aged rustic.
Gaffle,n., An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.
Gagged,imp. & p. p., of Gag
Gagate,n., Agate.
Gaging,p. pr & vb. n., of Gage
Gagger,n., One who gags.
Gaggle,v. i., To make a noise like a goose; to cackle.
Gaidic,a., Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained from hypogeic acid.
Gaiety,n., Same as Gayety.
Gailer,n., A jailer.
Gained,imp. & p. p., of Gain
Gainer,n., One who gains.
Gainly,a., Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously.
Gaited,a., Having (such
Gaiter,n., A covering of cloth or leather for the ankle and instep, or for the whole leg from the knee to the instep, fitting down upon the shoe. 
Gaitre,n., Alt. of Gaytre
Gaytre,n., The dogwood tree.
Galage,n., See Galoche.
Galago,n., A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species. 
Galaxy,n., The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable only with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remote clusters of stars. 
Galban,n., Alt. of Galbanum
Galeas,n., See Galleass.
Galena,n., A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca.
Galiot,n., A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly for speed. It was moved both by sails and oars, having one mast, and sixteen or twenty seats for rowers. 
Galled,imp. & p. p., of Gall
Galley,n., A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or not 
Gallic,a., Pertaining to, or containing, gallium. 
Gallin,n., A substance obtained by the reduction of gallein.
Gallon,n., A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure. 
Gallop,v. i., To move or run in the mode called a gallop; as a horse; to go at a gallop; to run or move with speed.
Gallow,v. t., To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t. 
Galoot,n., A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy. 
Galore,n. & a., Plenty; abundance; in abundance.
Galwes,n., Gallows.
Gambet,n., Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler.
Gambit,n., A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to gain an attacking position. 
Gamble,v. i., To play or game for money or other stake.
Gambol,n., A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank.
Gaming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Game
Gamely,adv., In a plucky manner; spiritedly.
Gaming,n., The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers; gambling.
Gammer,n., An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old man. 
Gammon,n., The buttock or thigh of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the lower end of a flitch. 
Gander,n., The male of any species of goose.
Ganesa,n., The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.
Ganger,n., One who oversees a gang of workmen.
Gangue,n., The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore.
Gannet,n., One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied to the pelicans. 
Ganoid,a., Of or pertaining to Ganoidei. -- n. One of the Ganoidei.
Gantry,n., See Gauntree.
Gaoler,n., The keeper of a jail. See Jailer.
Gaping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Gape
Garbed,a., Dressed; habited; clad.
Garbel,n., Same as Garboard.
Garble,v. t., To sift or bolt, to separate the fine or valuable parts of from the coarse and useless parts, or from dros or dirt; as, to garble spices. 
Garden,n., A piece of ground appropriated to the cultivation of herbs, fruits, flowers, or vegetables. 
Gardon,n., A European cyprinoid fish; the id.
Garget,n., The throat.
Gargil,n., A distemper in geese, affecting the head. 
Gargle,n., See Gargoyle.
Gargol,n., A distemper in swine; garget.
Garish,a., Showy; dazzling; ostentatious; attracting or exciting attention.
Garlic,n., A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated variety
Garner,n., A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for preservation.
Garnet,n., A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric
Garous,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, garum. 
Garran,n., See Galloway.
Garret,n., A turret; a watchtower.
Garron,n., Same as Garran.
Garrot,n., A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb. 
Garter,n., A band used to prevent a stocking from slipping down on the leg.
Garvie,n., The sprat; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. 
Gascon,a., Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons; also, braggart; swaggering. 
Gashed,imp. & p. p., of Gash
Gasify,v. t., To convert into gas, or an aeriform fluid, as by the application of heat, or by chemical processes. 
Gasket,n., A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gaskets are common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines or bands. Called also casket.
Gasped,imp. & p. p., of Gasp
Gaster,v. t., To gast.
Gastly,a., See Ghastful, Ghastly. 
Gather,v. t., To bring together; to collect, as a number of separate things, into one place, or into one aggregate body; to assemble; to muster; to congregate. 
Gatten,, A name given to the small trees called guelder-rose (Viburnum Opulus
Gauche,n., Left handed; hence, awkward; clumsy. 
Gaucho,n., One of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American descent. They live mostly by rearing cattle. 
Gauded,imp. & p. p., of Gaud
Gauged,imp. & p. p., of Gauge
Gauger,n., One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain the contents of casks.
Gaviae,n. pl., The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns.
Gavial,n., A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus
Gayety,a., The state of being gay; merriment; mirth; acts or entertainments prompted by, or inspiring, merry delight; -- used often in the plural; as, the gayeties of the season. 
Gaytre,n., The dogwood tree.
Gazing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Gaze
Geared,imp. & p. p., of Gear
Geason,a., Rare; wonderful.
Geeing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Gee
Gelada,n., A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli
Gelded,imp. & p. p., of Geld
Gelder,n., One who gelds or castrates.
Gelose,n., An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar, and other seaweeds. 
Gemmed,imp. & p. p., of Gem
Gemara,n., The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna (which forms the first part or text
Gemini,n. pl., A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright stars Castor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about May 20th. 
Geminy,n., Twins; a pair; a couple.
Gemmae,pl. , of Gemma
Gemote,v. t., A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, an assembly of the wise men. 
Gender,n., Kind; sort.
Genera,n. pl., See Genus.
Geneva,n., The chief city of Switzerland.
Genial,a., Same as Genian.
Genian,a., Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genian prominence. 
Genius,n., A good or evil spirit, or demon, supposed by the ancients to preside over a man's destiny in life; a tutelary deity; a supernatural being; a spirit, good or bad. Cf. Jinnee. 
Gentes,pl. , of Gens
Gentil,a. & n., Gentle.
Gentle,superl., Well-born; of a good family or respectable birth, though not noble. 
Gently,adv., In a gentle manner.
Gentoo,n., A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo.
Gentry,a., Birth; condition; rank by birth.
Genera,pl. , of Genus
George,n., A figure of St. George (the patron saint of England
Geotic,a., Belonging to earth; terrestrial.
Gerant,n., The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stock association, etc. 
Gerbil,n., Alt. of Gerbille
Gerboa,n., The jerboa.
Gerent,a., Bearing; carrying.
Gerful,a., Changeable; capricious.
German,a., Nearly related; closely akin.
Germen,n., See Germ.
Gerner,n., A garner.
Gerund,n., A kind of verbal noun, having only the four oblique cases of the singular number, and governing cases like a participle. 
Gestic,a., Pertaining to deeds or feats of arms; legendary.
Gotten,, of Get
Getter,n., One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates. 
Gewgaw,n., A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty but worthless bauble.
Geyser,n., A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jets of water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam. 
Gharry,n., Any wheeled cart or carriage.
Gheber,n., A worshiper of fire; a Zoroastrian; a Parsee.
Ghetto,n., The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city.
Giaour,n., An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in the Mohammedan religion, especially Christrians. 
Gibbed,imp. & p. p., of Gib
Gibber,n., A balky horse.
Gibbet,n., A kind of gallows; an upright post with an arm projecting from the top, on which, formerly, malefactors were hanged in chains, and their bodies allowed to remain asa warning. 
Gibbon,n., Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many species and varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia. They are tailless and without cheek pouches, and have very long arms, adapted for climbing. 
Gibing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Gibe
Giblet,a., Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie. 
Gifted,imp. & p. p., of Gift
Gigget,n., Same as Gigot.
Giggle,v. t., To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh in a light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity. 
Giggly,a., Prone to giggling.
Giggot,n., See Gigot.
Giglot,n., Alt. of Giglet
Giglet,n., A wanton; a lascivious or light, giddy girl. 
Giglot,a., Giddi; light; inconstant; wanton.
Giggot,n., A leg of mutton.
Gilded,imp. & p. p., of Gild
Gilden,a., Gilded.
Gilder,n., One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold.
Gillie,n., A boy or young man; a manservant; a male attendant, in the Scottish Highlands. 
Gilour,n., A guiler; deceiver.
Giltif,a., Guilty.
Gimbal,n., Alt. of Gimbals
Gimlet,n., A small tool for boring holes. It has a leading screw, a grooved body, and a cross handle. 
Gimmal,n., Joined work whose parts move within each other; a pair or series of interlocked rings.
Gommal,a., Made or consisting of interlocked ring/ or links; as, gimmal mail. 
Gimmer,n., Alt. of Gimmor
Gimmor,n., A piece of mechanism; mechanical device or contrivance; a gimcrack.
Ginned,imp. & p. p., of Gin
Gingal,n., See Jingal.
Ginger,n., A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies. The species most known is Z. officinale. 
Gingle,n. & v., See Jingle.
Ginkgo,n., A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba
Ginnee,n., See Jinnee.
Ginnet,n., See Genet, a horse. 
Gipoun,n., A short cassock.
Gipser,n., Alt. of Gipsire
Girded,, of Gird
Girder,n., One who girds; a satirist.
Girdle,n., A griddle.
Girkin,n., See Gherkin.
Girted,imp. & p. p., of Girt
Gisarm,n., A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharp point, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers. 
Giusto,a., In just, correct, or suitable time. 
Giving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Give
Glacis,n., A gentle slope, or a smooth, gently sloping bank; especially (Fort.
Gladen,n., Sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. the European Iris foetidissima. 
Gladii,pl. , of Gladius
Gladly,a., Preferably; by choice.
Glaire,n., See Glair.
Glairy,a., Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair; viscous and transparent; slimy. 
Glaive,n., A weapon formerly used, consisting of a large blade fixed on the end of a pole, whose edge was on the outside curve; also, a light lance with a long sharp-pointed head. 
Glance,n., A sudden flash of light or splendor.
Glared,imp. & p. p., of Glare
Glassy,a., Made of glass; vitreous; as, a glassy substance. 
Glaver,v. i., To prate; to jabber; to babble.
Glased,imp. & p. p., of Glase
Glazen,a., Resembling glass; glasslike; glazed.
Glazer,n., One who applies glazing, as in pottery manufacture, etc.; one who gives a glasslike or glossy surface to anything; a calenderer or smoother of cloth, paper, and the like. 
Gleamy,a., Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing; coruscating.
Gleety,a., Ichorous; thin; limpid.
Gleire,n., Alt. of Gleyre
Gleyre,n., See Glair.
Glibly,adv., In a glib manner; as, to speak glibly. 
Glicke,n., An ogling look.
Glided,imp. & p. p., of Glide
Gliden,, p. p. of Glide.
Glider,n., One who, or that which, glides. 
Glioma,n., A tumor springing from the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain, spinal cord, or other portions of the nervous system. 
Glires,n. pl., An order of mammals; the Rodentia.
Globed,imp. & p. p., of Globe
Glombe,v. i., Alt. of Glome
Gloomy,superl., Imperfectly illuminated; dismal through obscurity or darkness; dusky; dim; clouded; as, the cavern was gloomy. 
Gloria,n., A doxology (beginning Gloria Patri, Glory be to the Father
Gloser,n., See Glosser.
Gloss/,pl. , of Glossa
Glossa,n., The tongue, or lingua, of an insect. See Hymenoptera. 
Glossy,superl., Smooth and shining; reflecting luster from a smooth surface; highly polished; lustrous; as, glossy silk; a glossy surface. 
Gloved,imp. & p. p., of Glove
Glover,n., One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves.
Glowed,imp. & p. p., of Glow
Glower,v. i., to look intently; to stare angrily or with a scowl.
Glozed,imp. & p. p., of Gloze
Glozer,n., A flatterer.
Glucic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar; as, glucic acid. 
Gluing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Glue
Gluish,a., Somewhat gluey.
Glumal,a., Characterized by a glume, or having the nature of a glume. 
Glumly,adv., In a glum manner; sullenly; moodily.
Glummy,a., dark; gloomy; dismal.
Glumpy,a., Glum; sullen; sulky.
Glunch,a., Frowning; sulky; sullen.
Gluten,n., The viscid, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness to dough. 
Glutin,n., Same as Gliadin.
Glycin,n., Same as Glycocoll.
Glycol,n., A thick, colorless liquid, C2H4(OH
Glynne,n., A glen. See Glen. [Obs. singly, but occurring often in locative names in Ireland, as Glen does in Scotland.] 
Gnarly,a., Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained.
Gnawed,imp. & p. p., of Gnaw
Gnawer,n., One who, or that which, gnaws. 
Gneiss,n., A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz, feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica, arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabs or flags. Hornblende sometimes takes the place of the mica, and it is then called hornblendic / syenitic gneiss. Similar varieties of related rocks are also called gneiss. 
Gnomic,a., Alt. of Gnomical
Gnomon,n., The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of the day. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis. 
Gnosis,n., The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as was claimed by the Gnostics. 
Goaded,imp. & p. p., of Goad
Goaves,pl. , of Goaf
Goatee,n., A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat. 
Goaves,n., Old workings. See Goaf.
Gobbet,n., A mouthful; a lump; a small piece.
Gobble,v. t., To swallow or eat greedily or hastily; to gulp.
Goblet,n., A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, but without a handle. 
Goblin,n., An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a frightful phantom; a gnome.
Gobies,pl. , of Goby
Gocart,n., A framework moving on casters, designed to support children while learning to walk. 
Godild,, A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless. 
Godown,n., A warehouse.
Godsib,n., A gossip.
Godson,n., A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. See Godfather.
Godwit,n., One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of the genus Limosa, and family Tringidae. The European black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa
Goemin,n., A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irish moss.
Goffer,v. t., To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer. 
Goggle,v. i., To roll the eyes; to stare.
Goglet,n., See Gurglet.
Goiter,n., Alt. of Goitre
Goitre,n., An enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of the neck; bronchocele. It is frequently associated with cretinism, and is most common in mountainous regions, especially in certain parts of Switzerland. 
Goolde,n., An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula
Golden,a., Made of gold; consisting of gold.
Goldie,n., The European goldfinch.
Goldin,n., Alt. of Golding
Golfer,n., One who plays golf.
Golore,n., See Galore.
Gomuti,n., A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained from the leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arenga saccharifera, of the Indian islands. It is used for making cordage. Called also ejoo. 
Gonads,pl. , of Gonad
Gonoph,n., A pickpocket or thief.
Goober,n., A peanut.
Goodly,adv., Excellently.
Gooroo,n., Alt. of Guru
Gopher,n., One of several North American burrowing rodents of the genera Geomys and Thomomys, of the family Geomyidae; -- called also pocket gopher and pouched rat. See Pocket gopher, and Tucan. 
Goramy,n., Same as Gourami.
Goring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Gore
Gorfly,n., A dung fly.
Gorged,imp. & p. p., of Gorge
Gorget,n., A piece of armor, whether of chain mail or of plate, defending the throat and upper part of the breast, and forming a part of the double breastplate of the 14th century. 
Gorgon,n., One of three fabled sisters, Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, with snaky hair and of terrific aspect, the sight of whom turned the beholder to stone. The name is particularly given to Medusa. 
Gorhen,n., The female of the gorcock.
Goring,n., Alt. of Goring cloth
Goroon,, A large, handsome, marine, univalve shell (Triton femorale
Goslet,n., One of several species of pygmy geese, of the genus Nettepus. They are about the size of a teal, and inhabit Africa, India, and Australia. 
Gospel,v., Glad tidings; especially, the good news concerning Christ, the Kingdom of God, and salvation. 
Gossan,n., Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing to oxidized pyrites
Gossat,n., A small British marine fish (Motella tricirrata
Gossib,n., A gossip.
Gossip,n., A sponsor; a godfather or a godmother.
Gothic,a., Pertaining to the Goths; as, Gothic customs; also, rude; barbarous. 
Gotten,, p. p. of Get.
Gouged,imp. & p. p., of Bouge
Gouger,n., See Plum Gouger.
Gourde,n., A silver dollar; -- so called in Cuba, Hayti, etc. 
Gourdy,a., Swelled in the legs.
Govern,v. t., To direct and control, as the actions or conduct of men, either by established laws or by arbitrary will; to regulate by authority. 
Gowany,a., Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies. 
Gowden,a., Golden.
Gowdie,n., See Dragont.
Gowned,p. a., Dressed in a gown; clad.
Graced,imp. & p. p., of Grace
Graded,imp. & p. p., of Grade
Grader,n., One who grades, or that by means of which grading is done or facilitated. 
Gradin,n., Alt. of Gradine
Gradus,n., A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek or Latin poetry. 
Graham,, Bread made of unbolted wheat flour.
Grains,n. pl., See 5th Grain, n., 2 (b
Grainy,a., Resembling grains; granular.
Graith,v. t., See Greith.
Grakle,n., See Grackle.
Gramme,n., The unit of weight in the metric system. It was intended to be exactly, and is very nearly, equivalent to the weight in a vacuum of one cubic centimeter of pure water at its maximum density. It is equal to 15.432 grains. See Grain, n., 4. 
Grange,n., A building for storing grain; a granary.
Granny,n., A grandmother; a grandam; familiarly, an old woman. 
Grassy,a., Covered with grass; abounding with grass; as, a grassy lawn. 
Grated,imp. & p. p., of Grate
Grater,a., One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs. 
Gratis,adv., For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously.
Graunt,v. & n., See Grant.
Graved,imp., of Grave
Graven,p. p., of Grave
Graved,, of Grave
Gravel,n., Small stones, or fragments of stone; very small pebbles, often intermixed with particles of sand. 
Graven,v. t., Carved.
Graver,n., One who graves; an engraver or a sculptor; one whose occupation is te cut letters or figures in stone or other hard material.
Graves,n. pl., The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves.
Gravic,a., Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces; gravic attraction. 
Gravid,a., Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, a gravid uterus; gravid piety. 
Grazed,imp. & p. p., of Graze
Grazer,n., One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass or herbage.
Grease,n., Animal fat, as tallow or lard, especially when in a soft state; oily or unctuous matter of any kind. 
Greasy,superl., Composed of, or characterized by, grease; oily; unctuous; as, a greasy dish. 
Greave,n., A grove.
Greece,pl. , of Gree
Greedy,superl., Having a keen appetite for food or drink; ravenous; voracious; very hungry; -- followed by of; as, a lion that is greedy of his prey. 
Greeve,n., See Grieve, an overseer. 
Greeze,n., A step. See Gree, a step. 
Gregal,a., Pertaining to, or like, a flock. 
Gregge,v. t., To make heavy; to increase.
Greith,v. t., To make ready; -- often used reflexively.
Gretto,, imp. of Greet, to salute. 
Grided,imp. & p. p., of Gride
Griego,n., See Greggoe.
Grieve,n., Alt. of Greeve
Greeve,n., A manager of a farm, or overseer of any work; a reeve; a manorial bailiff. 
Grieve,v. t., To occasion grief to; to wound the sensibilities of; to make sorrowful; to cause to suffer; to afflict; to hurt; to try.
Griffe,n., The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto. 
Grille,v. t., A lattice or grating.
Grilly,v. t., To broil; to grill; hence, To harass. 
Grilse,n., A young salmon after its first return from the sea.
Grimly,a., Grim; hideous; stern.
Grimme,n., A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus
Ground,imp. & p. p., of Grind
Grinte,, imp. of Grin, v. i., 1. 
Griped,imp. & p. p., of Gripe
Griper,a., One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner.
Griman,n., The man who manipulates a grip.
Grippe,n., The influenza or epidemic catarrh.
Grisly,a., Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh; as, grisly locks; a grisly specter. 
Grison,n., A South American animal of the family Mustelidae (Galictis vittata
Gritty,a., Containing sand or grit; consisting of grit; caused by grit; full of hard particles.
Grivet,n., A monkey of the upper Nile and Abyssinia (Cercopithecus griseo-viridis
Groats,n. pl., Dried grain, as oats or wheat, hulled and broken or crushed; in high milling, cracked fragments of wheat larger than grits. 
Grocer,n., A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, and various other commodities. 
Groggy,a., Overcome with grog; tipsy; unsteady on the legs.
Gromet,n., Same as Grommet.
Gronte,, obs. imp. of Groan.
Groove,n., A furrow, channel, or long hollow, such as may be formed by cutting, molding, grinding, the wearing force of flowing water, or constant travel; a depressed way; a worn path; a rut. 
Groped,imp. & p. p., of Grope
Groper,n., One who gropes; one who feels his way in the dark, or searches by feeling. 
Grotto,n., A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment. 
Ground,n., The surface of the earth; the outer crust of the globe, or some indefinite portion of it. 
Grouse,n. sing. & pl., Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidae, and subfamily Tetraoninae, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-feathered legs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans (Lagopus
Grouty,a., Cross; sulky; sullen.
Grovel,adv., To creep on the earth, or with the face to the ground; to lie prone, or move uneasily with the body prostrate on the earth; to lie fiat on one's belly, expressive of abjectness; to crawl. 
Growan,n., A decomposed granite, forming a mass of gravel, as in tin lodes in Cornwall. 
Grower,n., One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, that which grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower. 
Growse,v. i., To shiver; to have chills.
Growth,n., The process of growing; the gradual increase of an animal or a vegetable body; the development from a seed, germ, or root, to full size or maturity; increase in size, number, frequency, strength, etc.; augmentation; advancement; production; prevalence or influence; as, the growth of trade; the growth of power; the growth of intemperance. Idle weeds are fast in growth. 
Groyne,n., See Groin.
Grubby,a., Dirty; unclean.
Grudge,v. t., To look upon with desire to possess or to appropriate; to envy (one
Grugru,, A West Indian name for several kinds of palm. See Macaw tree, under Macaw. 
Grumpy,a., Surly; dissatisfied; grouty.
Grutch,v., See Grudge.
Gryfon,n., See Griffin.
Guacho,n., One of the mixed-blood (Spanish-Indian
Guaiac,a., Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum. 
Guanin,n., A crystalline substance (C5H5N5O
Guanos,pl. , of Guano
Guards,n. pl., A body of picked troops; as,   The Household Guards.   
Gueber,n., Alt. of Guebre
Guebre,n., Same as Gheber.
Guelph,n., Alt. of Guelf
Guenon,n., One of several long-tailed Oriental monkeys, of the genus Cercocebus, as the green monkey and grivet. 
Gue'vi,n., One of several very small species and varieties of African antelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc (Cephalophus pygmaea
Guffaw,n., A loud burst of laughter; a horse laugh.
Guffer,n., The eelpout; guffer eel.
Guggle,v. i., See Gurgle.
Guided,imp. & p. p., of Guide
Guider,n., A guide; a director.
Guidon,v. t., A small flag or streamer, as that carried by cavalry, which is broad at one end and nearly pointed at the other, or that used to direct the movements of a body of infantry, or to make signals at sea; also, the flag of a guild or fraternity. In the United States service, each company of cavalry has a guidon. 
Guilor,n., A deceiver; one who deludes, or uses guile. 
Guilty,superl., Having incurred guilt; criminal; morally delinquent; wicked; chargeable with, or responsible for, something censurable; justly exposed to penalty; -- used with of, and usually followed by the crime, sometimes by the punishment. 
Guinea,n., A district on the west coast of Africa (formerly noted for its export of gold and slaves
Guiser,n., A person in disguise; a masker; a mummer.
Guitar,n., A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers. 
Gulden,n., See Guilder.
Gulgul,n., A cement made in India from sea shells, pulverized and mixed with oil, and spread over a ship's bottom, to prevent the boring of worms. 
Gulist,n., A glutton.
Gulled,imp. & p. p., of Gull
Guller,n., One who gulls; a deceiver.
Gullet,n., The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynx to the stomach; the esophagus.
Gulles,pl. , of Gully
Gulped,imp. & p. p., of Gulp
Gummed,imp. &. p., of Gum
Gummer,n., A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlarging the spaces between the teeth of a worn saw. 
Gunjah,n., See Ganja.
Gunnel,n., A gunwale.
Gunner,n., One who works a gun, whether on land or sea; a cannoneer. 
Gunnie,n., Space left by the removal of ore.
Gunter,, A topmast arranged with metal bands so that it will readily slide up and down the lower mast.
Gurgle,v. i., To run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as water from a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones. 
Gurjun,n., A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus laevis, an East Indian tree. It is used in medicine, and as a substitute for linseed oil in the coarser kinds of paint. 
Gurlet,n., A pickax with one sharp point and one cutting edge.
Gurnet,n., One ofseveral European marine fishes, of the genus Trigla and allied genera, having a large and spiny head, with mailed cheeks. Some of the species are highly esteemed for food. The name is sometimes applied to the American sea robins. 
Gushed,imp. & p. p., of Gush
Gusher,n., One who gushes.
Gusset,n., A small piece of cloth inserted in a garment, for the purpose of strengthening some part or giving it a tapering enlargement. 
Gutted,imp. & p. p., of Gut
GuttAe,pl. , of Gutta
Gutter,n., A channel at the eaves of a roof for conveying away the rain; an eaves channel; an eaves trough.
Guttle,n., To put into the gut; to swallow greedily; to gorge; to gormandize. [Obs.] L'Estrange.
Guying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Guy
Guzzle,v. i., To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently.
Gybing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Gybe
Gymnal,a. & n., Same as Gimmal.
Gymnic,a., Alt. of Gymnical
Gypsey,n., A gypsy. See Gypsy.
Gypsum,n., A mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium
Gyrant,a., Gyrating.
Gyrate,a., Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking a circular course.
Gyroma,n., A turning round.
Habeas,, A writ having for its object to bring a party before a court or judge; especially, one to inquire into the cause of a person's imprisonment or detention by another, with the view to protect the right to personal liberty; also, one to bring a prisoner into court to testify in a pending trial. 
Habile,a., Fit; qualified; also, apt. 
Habnab,adv., By chance.
Hacked,imp. & p. p., of Hack
Hackee,n., The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel. 
Hacker,n., One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cutting instrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine trees in collecting turpentine; a hack. 
Hackle,n., A comb for dressing flax, raw silk, etc.; a hatchel. 
Hackly,a., Rough or broken, as if hacked. 
Hadder,n., Heather; heath.
Haddie,n., The haddock.
Haemad,adv., Toward the haemal side; on the haemal side of; -- opposed to neurad.
Haemal,a., Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. See Hemal. 
Haemic,a., Pertaining to the blood; hemal.
Haemin,n., Same as Hemin.
Haffle,v. i., To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate.
Hafter,n., A caviler; a wrangler.
Hagged,imp. & p. p., of Hag
Hagbut,n., A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim. 
Hagdon,n., One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus; esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P. Stricklandi, the black hagdon or sooty shearwater; -- called also hagdown, haglin, and hag. See Shearwater. 
Hagged,a., Like a hag; lean; ugly.
Haggis,n., A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of a sheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highly seasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced head and pluck. 
Haggle,v. t., To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch or cut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as, a boy haggles a stick of wood. 
Haikal,n., The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of a Coptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed by an embroidered curtain. 
Halled,imp. & p. p., of Hail
Hailse,v. t., To greet; to salute.
Hain't,, A contraction of have not or has not; as, I hain't, he hain't, we hain't. 
Haired,a., Having hair.
Hairen,a., Hairy.
Haling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hale
Halves,pl. , of Half
Halfen,a., Wanting half its due qualities.
Halfer,n., One who possesses or gives half only; one who shares.
Halmas,a., The feast of All Saints; Hallowmas.
Halite,n., Native salt; sodium chloride.
Halloa,, See Halloo.
Halloo,n., A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout.
Hallow,v. t., To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; to consecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence.
Hallux,n., The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, corresponding to the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds. 
Haloed,imp. & p. p., of Halo
Haloid,a., Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consisting of a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chiefly applied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides, and sometimes also to the fluorides and cyanides. 
Halsed,imp. & p. p., of Halse
Halser,n., See Hawser.
Halted,imp. & p. p., of Halt
Halter,n., One who halts or limps; a cripple.
Halved,imp. & p. p., of Halve
Halves,n., pl. of Half.
Hamate,a., Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous.
Hamble,v. t., To hamstring.
Hamite,n., A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to the ammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form. 
Haitic,a., Pertaining to Ham or his descendants.
Hamlet,n., A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country.
Hammer,n., An instrument for driving nails, beating metals, and the like, consisting of a head, usually of steel or iron, fixed crosswise to a handle. 
Hamose,, Alt. of Hamous
Hamous,, Having the end hooked or curved.
Hamper,n., A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; an oyster hamper, which contains two bushels. 
Hamule,n., A little hook.
Hamuli,pl. , of Hamulus
Handed,imp. & p. p., of Hand
Hander,n., One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession.
Handle,v. t., To touch; to feel with the hand; to use or hold with the hand.
Hanged,imp. & p. p., of Hang
Hanger,n., One who hangs, or causes to be hanged; a hangman. 
Hanker,v. i., To long (for
Hansel,n. & v., See Handsel.
Hansom,, Alt. of Hansom cab
Happed,p. a., Wrapped; covered; cloaked.
Happen,v. i., To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out.
Hapuku,n., A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus
Harass,v. t., To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp., to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endure excessive burdens or anxieties; -- sometimes followed by out. 
Harbor,n., A station for rest and entertainment; a place of security and comfort; a refuge; a shelter.
Harden,v. t., To make hard or harder; to make firm or compact; to indurate; as, to harden clay or iron. 
Harder,n., A South African mullet, salted for food. 
Hardly,adv., In a hard or difficult manner; with difficulty.
Hareld,n., The long-tailed duck.
Harier,n., See Harrier.
Harish,a., Like a hare.
Harken,v. t. & i., To hearken.
Harlot,n., A churl; a common man; a person, male or female, of low birth. 
Harmed,imp. & p. p., of Harm
Harmel,n., A kind of rue (Ruta sylvestris
Harped,imp. & p. p., of Harp
Harper,n., A player on the harp; a minstrel.
Harrow,n., An implement of agriculture, usually formed of pieces of timber or metal crossing each other, and set with iron or wooden teeth. It is drawn over plowed land to level it and break the clods, to stir the soil and make it fine, or to cover seed when sown. 
Harten,v. t., To hearten; to encourage; to incite.
Hasard,n., Hazard.
Hashed,imp. & p. p., of Hash
Haslet,n., The edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp. of a hog. 
Hasped,imp. & p. p., of Hasp
Hasted,imp. & p. p., of Haste
Hasten,v. t., To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate; to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry.
Hastif,a., Hasty.
Hatbox,n., A box for a hat.
Hating,p. pr. & pr. & vb. n., of Hate
Hatred,n., Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil.
Hatted,a., Covered with a hat.
Hatter,v. t., To tire or worry; -- out.
Haught,a., High; elevated; hence, haughty; proud. 
Hauled,imp. & p. p., of Haul
Hauler,n., One who hauls.
Haulse,v., See Halse.
Haunce,v. t., To enhance.
Haunch,n., The hip; the projecting region of the lateral parts of the pelvis and the hip joint; the hind part.
Hausen,n., A large sturgeon (Acipenser huso
Hausse,n., A kind of graduated breech sight for a small arm, or a cannon. 
Havana,a., Of or pertaining to Havana, the capital of the island of Cuba; as, an Havana cigar 
Having,p. pr. & vb. n., of Have
Havior,n., Behavior; demeanor.
Hawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Haw
Hawhaw,v. i., To laugh boisterously.
Hawked,imp. & p. p., of Hawk
Hawker,n., One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, a peddler or a packman. 
Hawkey,n., See Hockey.
Hawser,n., A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns.
Haymow,n., A mow or mass of hay laid up in a barn for preservation.
Hazard,n., A game of chance played with dice.
Hazing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Haze
Hazily,adv., In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly.
Headed,imp. & p. p., of Head
Header,n., One who, or that which, heads nails, rivets, etc., esp. a machine for heading. 
Healed,imp. & p. p., of Heal
Health,n., The state of being hale, sound, or whole, in body, mind, or soul; especially, the state of being free from physical disease or pain. 
Heaped,imp. & p. p., of Heap
Heaper,n., One who heaps, piles, or amasses. 
Hearer,n., One who hears; an auditor.
Hearse,n., A hind in the year of its age.
Hearth,n., The pavement or floor of brick, stone, or metal in a chimney, on which a fire is made; the floor of a fireplace; also, a corresponding part of a stove. 
Hearty,superl., Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the heart; warm; cordial; bold; zealous; sincere; willing; also, energetic; active; eager; as, a hearty welcome; hearty in supporting the government. 
Heated,imp. & p. p., of Heat
Heater,n., One who, or that which, heats. 
Heathy,a., Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathy hills. 
Heaved,imp., of Heave
Heaven,n., The expanse of space surrounding the earth; esp., that which seems to be over the earth like a great arch or dome; the firmament; the sky; the place where the sun, moon, and stars appear; -- often used in the plural in this sense. 
Heaver,n., One who, or that which, heaves or lifts; a laborer employed on docks in handling freight; as, a coal heaver. 
Heaves,n., A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, with heaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough; broken wind. 
Hebete,a., Dull; stupid.
Hebrew,n., An appellative of Abraham or of one of his descendants, esp. in the line of Jacob; an Israelite; a Jew. 
Heckle,n. & v. t., Same as Hackle.
Hectic,a., Habitual; constitutional; pertaining especially to slow waste of animal tissue, as in consumption; as, a hectic type in disease; a hectic flush. 
Hector,n., A bully; a blustering, turbulent, insolent, fellow; one who vexes or provokes. 
Heddle,n., One of the sets of parallel doubled threads which, with mounting, compose the harness employed to guide the warp threads to the lathe or batten in a loom. 
Hedged,imp. & p. p., of Hedge
Hedger,n., One who makes or mends hedges; also, one who hedges, as, in betting. 
Heeded,imp. & p. p., of Heed
Heeled,imp. & p. p., of Heel
Heeler,n., A cock that strikes well with his heels or spurs.
Hefted,imp. & p. p., of Heft
Hegira,n., The flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A. D. 622 (subsequently established as the first year of the Moslem era
Heifer,n., A young cow.
Height,n., The condition of being high; elevated position.
Hejira,n., See Hegira.
Helena,n., See St. Elmo's fire, under Saint. 
Heliac,a., Heliacal.
Helium,n., A gaseous element found in the atmospheres of the sun and earth and in some rare minerals.
Helmed,imp. & p. p., of Helm
Helmet,n., A defensive covering for the head. See Casque, Headpiece, Morion, Sallet, and Illust. of Beaver. 
Helped,imp. & p. p., of Help
Holpen,p. p., of Help
Helper,n., One who, or that which, helps, aids, assists, or relieves; as, a lay helper in a parish. 
Helved,imp. & p. p., of Helve
Hemmed,imp. & p. p., of Hem
Hemato,, See Haema-.
Hemina,n., A measure of half a sextary.
Hemmel,n., A shed or hovel for cattle.
Hemmer,n., One who, or that which, hems with a needle. 
Hempen,a., Made of hemp; as, a hempen cord. 
Hemuse,n., The roebuck in its third year.
Henbit,n., A weed of the genus Lamium (L. amplexicaule
Hennes,adv., Hence.
Henoge,n., Alt. of Henogenesis
Henrys,pl. , of Henry
Heppen,a., Neat; fit; comfortable.
Hepper,n., A young salmon; a parr.
Heptad,n., An atom which has a valence of seven, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, seven monad atoms or radicals; as, iodine is a heptad in iodic acid. Also used as an adjective. 
Heptyl,n., A compound radical, C7H15, regarded as the essential radical of heptane and a related series of compounds. 
Herald,n., An officer whose business was to denounce or proclaim war, to challenge to battle, to proclaim peace, and to bear messages from the commander of an army. He was invested with a sacred and inviolable character. 
Heraud,n., A herald.
Herbal,a., Of or pertaining to herbs.
Herbar,n., An herb.
Herber,n., A garden; a pleasure garden.
Herbid,a., Covered with herbs.
Herded,imp. & p. p., of Herd
Herder,n., A herdsman.
Herdic,n., A kind of low-hung cab.
Hereby,adv., By means of this.
Herein,adv., In this.
Hereof,adv., Of this; concerning this; from this; hence.
Hereon,adv., On or upon this; hereupon.
Heresy,n., An opinion held in opposition to the established or commonly received doctrine, and tending to promote a division or party, as in politics, literature, philosophy, etc.; -- usually, but not necessarily, said in reproach. 
Hereto,adv., To this; hereunto.
Heriot,n., Formerly, a payment or tribute of arms or military accouterments, or the best beast, or chattel, due to the lord on the death of a tenant; in modern use, a customary tribute of goods or chattels to the lord of the fee, paid on the decease of a tenant. 
Hermae,pl. , of Herma
Hermes,n., See Mercury.
Hermit,n., A person who retires from society and lives in solitude; a recluse; an anchoret; especially, one who so lives from religious motives. 
Hernia,n., A protrusion, consisting of an organ or part which has escaped from its natural cavity, and projects through some natural or accidental opening in the walls of the latter; as, hernia of the brain, of the lung, or of the bowels. Hernia of the abdominal viscera in most common. Called also rupture. 
Heroes,pl. , of Hero
Heroic,a., Of or pertaining to, or like, a hero; of the nature of heroes; distinguished by the existence of heroes; as, the heroic age; an heroic people; heroic valor. 
Herpes,n., An eruption of the skin, taking various names, according to its form, or the part affected; especially, an eruption of vesicles in small distinct clusters, accompanied with itching or tingling, including shingles, ringworm, and the like; -- so called from its tendency to creep or spread from one part of the skin to another. 
Hersal,n., Rehearsal.
Hesper,n., The evening; Hesperus.
Hetman,n., A Cossack headman or general. The title of chief hetman is now held by the heir to the throne of Russia.
Hewing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hew
Hexade,n., A series of six numbers.
Hexane,n., Any one of five hydrocarbons, C6H14, of the paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, and are so called because the molecule has six carbon atoms. 
Hexene,n., Same as Hexylene.
Hexine,n., A hydrocarbon, C6H10, of the acetylene series, obtained artificially as a colorless, volatile, pungent liquid; -- called also hexoylene. 
Hexoic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, hexane; as, hexoic acid. 
Hexone,n., A liquid hydrocarbon, C6H8, of the valylene series, obtained from distillation products of certain fats and gums. 
Heyday,interj., An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes of wonder. 
Heyten,adv., Hence.
Hiatus,pl. , of Hiatus
Hickup,n. & v. i., See Hiccough.
Hidage,n., A tax formerly paid to the kings of England for every hide of land.
Hidden,p. p. & a., from Hide. Concealed; put out of view; secret; not known; mysterious.
Hiding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hide
Hieron,n., A consecrated place; esp., a temple. 
Higgle,v. i., To hawk or peddle provisions.
Highly,adv., In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highly esteemed. 
Highth,n., Variant of Height.
Hijera,n., Alt. of Hijra
Hilary,, Formerly, one of the four terms of the courts of common law in England, beginning on the eleventh of January and ending on the thirty-first of the same month, in each year; -- so called from the festival of St. Hilary, January 13th. 
Hilled,imp. & p. p., of Hill
Hilted,a., Having a hilt; -- used in composition; as, basket-hilted, cross-hilted. 
Himpne,n., A hymn.
Hinder,a., Of or belonging to that part or end which is in the rear, or which follows; as, the hinder part of a wagon; the hinder parts of a horse. 
Hindus,pl. , of Hindu
Hindoo,n., Alt. of Hindu
Hinged,imp. & p. p., of Hinge
Hinted,imp. & p. p., of Hint
Hipped,imp. & p. p., of Hip
Hircic,a., Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mutton suet; -- applied by Chevreul to an oily acid which was obtained from mutton suet, and to which he attributed the peculiar taste and smell of that substance. The substance has also been called hircin. 
Hircin,n., Hircic acid. See Hircic.
Hiring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hire
Hirudo,n., A genus of leeches, including the common medicinal leech. See Leech. 
Hispid,a., Rough with bristles or minute spines.
Hissed,imp. & p. p., of Hiss
Hither,adv., To this place; -- used with verbs signifying motion, and implying motion toward the speaker; correlate of hence and thither; as, to come or bring hither. 
Hitter,n., One who hits or strikes; as, a hard hitter. 
Hiving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hive
Hoared,a., Moldy; musty.
Hoarse,superl., Having a harsh, rough, grating voice or sound, as when affected with a cold; making a rough, harsh cry or sound; as, the hoarse raven. 
Hoaxed,imp. & p. p., of Hoax
Hoaxer,n., One who hoaxes.
Hoazin,n., A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus
Hobble,n. i., To walk lame, bearing chiefly on one leg; to walk with a hitch or hop, or with crutches. 
Hobbly,a., Rough; uneven; causing one to hobble; as a hobbly road.
Hobnob,adv., Have or have not; -- a familiar invitation to reciprocal drinking.
Hockey,n., A game in which two parties of players, armed with sticks curved or hooked at the end, attempt to drive any small object (as a ball or a bit of wood
Hockle,v. t., To hamstring; to hock; to hough.
Hodmen,pl. , of Hodman
Hodman,n., A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender.
Hoeing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hoe
Hogged,imp. & p. p., of Hog
Hogger,n., A stocking without a foot, worn by coal miners at work. 
Hogget,n., A young boar of the second year.
Hognut,n., The pignut.
Hogpen,n., A pen or sty for hogs.
Hogsty,n., A pen, house, or inclosure, for hogs. 
Hoiden,n., A rude, clownish youth. 
Holcad,n., A large ship of burden, in ancient Greece. 
Holden,, of Hold
Holder,n., One who is employed in the hold of a vessel.
Holily,adv., Piously; with sanctity; in a holy manner.
Holing,n., Undercutting in a bed of coal, in order to bring down the upper mass. 
Holloa,n. & v. i., Same as Hollo.
Hollow,a., Having an empty space or cavity, natural or artificial, within a solid substance; not solid; excavated in the interior; as, a hollow tree; a hollow sphere. 
Holmia,n., An oxide of holmium.
Holmos,n., A name given to a vase having a rounded body
Holour,n., A whoremonger.
Holpen,, imp. & p. p. of Help.
Holsom,a., Wholesome.
Homage,n., A symbolical acknowledgment made by a feudal tenant to, and in the presence of, his lord, on receiving investiture of fee, or coming to it by succession, that he was his man, or vassal; profession of fealty to a sovereign. 
Homely,n., Belonging to, or having the characteristics of, home; domestic; familiar; intimate. 
Homily,n., A discourse or sermon read or pronounced to an audience; a serious discourse.
Homing,a., Home-returning; -- used specifically of carrier pigeons.
Hominy,n., Maize hulled and broken, and prepared for food by being boiled in water. 
Homish,a., Like a home or a home circle.
Honing,p]. pr. & vb. n., of Hone
Honest,a., Decent; honorable; suitable; becoming.
Honied,a., See Honeyed.
Hooded,imp. & p. p., of Hood
Hoodoo,n., One who causes bad luck.
Hooves,pl. , of Hoof
Hoofed,a., Furnished with hoofs.
Hooked,imp. & p. p., of Hook
Hookah,n., A pipe with a long, flexible stem, so arranged that the smoke is cooled by being made to pass through water. 
Hooked,a., Having the form of a hook; curvated; as, the hooked bill of a bird. 
Hooker,n., One who, or that which, hooks. 
Hookey,n., See Hockey.
Hooped,imp. & p. p., of Hoop
Hooper,n., One who hoops casks or tubs; a cooper.
Hoopoe,n., Alt. of Hoopoo
Hoopoo,n., A European bird of the genus Upupa (U. epops
Hooted,imp. & p. p., of Hoot
Hooven,a., Alt. of Hoven
Hopped,imp. & p. p., of Hop
Hoping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Hope
Hopped,p. a., Impregnated with hops.
Hopper,n., One who, or that which, hops. 
Hoppet,n., A hand basket; also, a dish used by miners for measuring ore. 
Hopple,v. t., To impede by a hopple; to tie the feet of (a horse or a cow
Horaly,adv., Hourly.
Horary,a., Of or pertaining to an hour; noting the hours.
Horned,a., Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like a horn. 
Hornel,n., The European sand eel.
Horner,n., One who works or deal in horn or horns.
Hornet,n., A large, strong wasp. The European species (Vespa crabro
Horrid,a., Rough; rugged; bristling.
Horror,n., A bristling up; a rising into roughness; tumultuous movement.
Horsed,imp. & p. p., of Horse
Horsly,a., Horselike.
Hortus,, A collection of specimens of plants, dried and preserved, and arranged systematically; an herbarium. 
Hosier,n., One who deals in hose or stocking, or in goods knit or woven like hose. 
Hostel,n., An inn.
Hostie,n., The consecrated wafer; the host.
Hostry,n., A hostelry; an inn or lodging house.
Hotbed,n., A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances, and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for nourishing exotics. 
Houdah,n., See Howdah.
Houlet,n., An owl. See Howlet.
Houris,pl. , of Houri
Hourly,a., Happening or done every hour; occurring hour by hour; frequent; often repeated; renewed hour by hour; continual.
Houses,pl. , of House
Housed,imp. & p. p., of House
Housel,n., The eucharist.
Houtou,n., A beautiful South American motmot.
Howdah,n., A seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of an elephant, for the rider or riders. 
Howell,n., The upper stage of a porcelian furnace.
Howitz,n., A howitzer.
Howker,n., Same as Hooker.
Howled,imp. & p. p., of Howl
Howler,n., One who howls.
Howlet,n., An owl; an owlet.
Hoyden,n., Same as Hoiden.
Hoymen,pl. , of Hoyman
Hoyman,n., One who navigates a hoy.
Hubbub,v. i., A loud noise of many confused voices; a tumult; uproar.
Hubner,n., A mineral of brownish black color, occurring in columnar or foliated masses. It is native manganese tungstate. 
Huchen,n., A large salmon (Salmo, / Salvelinus, hucho
Huckle,n., The hip; the haunch.
Huddle,v. i., To press together promiscuously, from confusion, apprehension, or the like; to crowd together confusedly; to press or hurry in disorder; to crowd. 
Huffed,imp. & p. p., of Huff
Huffer,n., A bully; a blusterer.
Hugged,imp. & p. p., of Hug
Hugger,n., One who hugs or embraces.
Huggle,v. t., To hug.
Hulchy,a., Swollen; gibbous.
Hulled,imp. & p. p., of Hull
Huller,n., One who, or that which, hulls; especially, an agricultural machine for removing the hulls from grain; a hulling machine. 
Hulver,n., Holly, an evergreen shrub or tree. 
Hummed,imp. & p. p., of Hum
Humane,a., Pertaining to man; human.
Humate,n., A salt of humic acid.
Humble,superl., Near the ground; not high or lofty; not pretentious or magnificent; unpretending; unassuming; as, a humble cottage. 
Humbly,adv., With humility; lowly.
Humbug,n., An imposition under fair pretenses; something contrived in order to deceive and mislead; a trick by cajolery; a hoax.
Humect,v. t., Alt. of Humectate
Humeri,pl. , of Humerus
Humiri,n., A fragrant balsam obtained from Brazilian trees of the genus Humirium.
Humite,n., A mineral of a transparent vitreous brown color, found in the ejected masses of Vesuvius. It is a silicate of iron and magnesia, containing fluorine. 
Hummel,v. t., To separate from the awns; -- said of barley.
Hummer,n., One who, or that which, hums; one who applauds by humming. 
Hummum,n., A sweating bath or place for sweating.
Humped,a., Having a hump, as the back. 
Hunger,n., An uneasy sensation occasioned normally by the want of food; a craving or desire for food.
Hungry,superl., Feeling hunger; having a keen appetite; feeling uneasiness or distress from want of food; hence, having an eager desire. 
Hunker,n., Originally, a nickname for a member of the conservative section of the Democratic party in New York; hence, one opposed to progress in general; a fogy. 
Hunted,imp. & p. p., of Hunt
Hunter,n., One who hunts wild animals either for sport or for food; a huntsman.
Hurden,n., A coarse kind of linen; -- called also harden.
Hurdle,n., A movable frame of wattled twigs, osiers, or withes and stakes, or sometimes of iron, used for inclosing land, for folding sheep and cattle, for gates, etc.; also, in fortification, used as revetments, and for other purposes. 
Hurled,imp. & p. p., of Hurl
Hurler,n., One who hurls, or plays at hurling. 
Hurons,n. pl., ; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.
Hurrah,interj., Alt. of Hurra
Hurter,n., A bodily injury causing pain; a wound, bruise, or the like. 
Hurtle,v. t., To meet with violence or shock; to clash; to jostle.
Hushed,imp. & p. p., of Hush
Husher,n., An usher.
Husked,imp. & p. p., of Husk
Hussar,n., Originally, one of the national cavalry of Hungary and Croatia; now, one of the light cavalry of European armies. 
Hustle,v. t., To shake together in confusion; to push, jostle, or crowd rudely; to handle roughly; as, to hustle a person out of a room. 
Hutted,imp. & p. p., of Hutch
Huxter,n. & v. i., See Huckster.
Hyades,n.pl., Alt. of Hyads
Hyaena,n., Same as Hyena.
Hyalea,n., A pteroid of the genus Cavolina. See Pteropoda, and Illustration in Appendix. 
Hybrid,n., The offspring of the union of two distinct species; an animal or plant produced from the mixture of two species. See Mongrel.
Hydage,n., A land tax. See Hidage.
Hydras,pl. , of Hydra
Hydrae,pl. , of Hydra
Hydria,n., A water jar; esp., one with a large rounded body, a small neck, and three handles. Some of the most beautiful Greek vases are of this form. 
Hydric,a., Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen; as, hydric oxide. 
Hydrus,n., A constellation of the southern hemisphere, near the south pole. 
Hyemal,a., Belonging to winter; done in winter.
Hyenas,pl. , of Hyena
Hyetal,a., Of or pertaining to rain; descriptive of the distribution of rain, or of rainy regions. 
Hygeia,n., The goddess of health, daughter of Esculapius. 
Hylism,n., A theory which regards matter as the original principle of evil.
Hymned,imp. & p. p., of Hymn
Hymnal,n., A collection of hymns; a hymn book.
Hymnic,a., Relating to hymns, or sacred lyrics. 
Hympne,n., A hymn.
Hyphae,n. pl., The long, branching filaments of which the mycelium (and the greater part of the plant
Hyphen,n., A mark or short dash, thus [-], placed at the end of a line which terminates with a syllable of a word, the remainder of which is carried to the next line; or between the parts of many a compound word; as in fine-leaved, clear-headed. It is also sometimes used to separate the syllables of words. 
Hypnum,n., The largest genus of true mosses; feather moss.
Hyrcan,a., Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyrcanian
Hyssop,n., A plant (Hyssopus officinalis
Iambic,a., Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot. 
Iambus,n., A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, as in /mans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n. 
Iatric,a., Alt. of Iatrical
Ibexes,pl. , of Ibex
Ibices,pl. , of Ibex
Ibidem,adv., In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib.
Icemen,pl. , of Iceman
Iceman,n., A man who is skilled in traveling upon ice, as among glaciers. 
Icicle,n., A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house. 
Ideate,n., The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.
Idiocy,n., The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked deficiency, of sense and intelligence. 
Idling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Idle
Idless,n., Alt. of Idlesse
Ignify,v. t., To form into fire.
Ignite,v. t., To kindle or set on fire; as, to ignite paper or wood. 
Ignomy,n., Ignominy.
Ignore,v. t., To be ignorant of or not acquainted with.
Ignote,a., Unknown.
Iguana,n., Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidae. They are arboreal in their habits, usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits. 
Iliche,adv., Alike.
Ilicic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex
Ilicin,n., The bitter principle of the holly.
Ilkoon,pron., Each one; every one.
Illish,a., Somewhat ill.
Illude,v. t., To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and disappoint the hopes of.
Illume,v. t., To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to illuminate; to illumine.
Illure,v. t., To deceive; to entice; to lure.
Imaged,imp. & p. p., of Image
Imager,n., One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor.
Imaret,n., A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims.
Imbalm,v. t., See Embalm.
Imband,v. t., To form into a band or bands.
Imbank,v. t., To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank.
Imbark,v. i. & t., See Embark.
Imbarn,v. t., To store in a barn.
Imbase,v. t., See Embase.
Imbibe,v. t., To drink in; to absorb; to suck or take in; to receive as by drinking; as, a person imbibes drink, or a sponge imbibes moisture. 
Imbody,v. i., To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material body. See Embody.
Imboil,v. t. & i., See Emboil.
Imbosk,v. t., To conceal, as in bushes; to hide. 
Imboss,v. t., See Emboss.
Imbrue,v. t., To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood. 
Imbued,imp. & p. p., of Imbue
Immane,a., Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman; atrocious; fierce. 
Immask,v. t., To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal. 
Immesh,v. t., To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a web; to insnare. 
Immold,v. t., Alt. of Immould
Immund,a., Unclean.
Immune,a., Exempt; protected by inoculation.
Immure,v. t., To wall around; to surround with walls.
Immute,v. t., To change or alter.
Imping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Imp
Impact,v. t., To drive close; to press firmly together: to wedge into a place.
Impair,v. t., To make worse; to diminish in quantity, value, excellence, or strength; to deteriorate; as, to impair health, character, the mind, value. 
Impale,v. t., To pierce with a pale; to put to death by fixing on a sharp stake. See Empale.
Impalm,v. t., To grasp with or hold in the hand.
Impark,v. t., To inclose for a park; to sever from a common; hence, to inclose or shut up. 
Imparl,v. i., To hold discourse; to parley.
Impart,n., To bestow a share or portion of; to give, grant, or communicate; to allow another to partake in; as, to impart food to the poor; the sun imparts warmth. 
Impave,v. t., To pave.
Impawn,v. t., To put in pawn; to pledge.
Impede,v. t., To hinder; to stop in progress; to obstruct; as, to impede the advance of troops. 
Impent,, of Impen
Impend,v. t., To pay.
Impery,n., Empery.
Impest,v. t., To affict with pestilence; to infect, as with plague. 
Imphee,n., The African sugar cane (Holcus saccharatus
Imping,n., The act or process of grafting or mending.
Impire,n., See Umpire.
Implex,a., Intricate; entangled; complicated; complex.
Impone,v. t., To stake; to wager; to pledge.
Impoon,n., The duykerbok.
Impoor,v. t., To impoverish.
Import,v. t., To bring in from abroad; to introduce from without; especially, to bring (wares or merchandise
Impose,v. t., To lay on; to set or place; to put; to deposit.
Impost,n., That which is imposed or levied; a tax, tribute, or duty; especially, a duty or tax laid by goverment on goods imported into a country. 
Impugn,v. t., To attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to oppose.
Impune,a., Unpunished.
Impure,a., Not pure; not clean; dirty; foul; filthy; containing something which is unclean or unwholesome; mixed or impregnated extraneous substances; adulterated; as, impure water or air; impure drugs, food, etc. 
Impute,v. t., To charge; to ascribe; to attribute; to set to the account of; to charge to one as the author, responsible originator, or possessor; -- generally in a bad sense. 
Imrigh,n., A peculiar strong soup or broth, made in Scotland. 
Inable,v. t., See Enable.
Inarch,v. t., To graft by uniting, as a scion, to a stock, without separating either from its root before the union is complete; -- also called to graft by approach. 
Inbind,v. t., To inclose.
Inborn,a., Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inborn passions. 
Inbred,a., Bred within; innate; as, inbred worth. 
Incage,v. t., To confine in, or as in, a cage; to coop up. 
Incarn,v. t., To cover or invest with flesh.
Incase,v. t., To inclose in a case; to inclose; to cover or surround with something solid.
Incask,v. t., To cover with a casque or as with a casque.
Incend,v. t., To inflame; to excite.
Incest,n., The crime of cohabitation or sexual commerce between persons related within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.
Inched,imp. & p. p., of Inch
Incide,v. t., To cut; to separate and remove; to resolve or break up, as by medicines. 
Incise,v. t., To cut in or into with a sharp instrument; to carve; to engrave.
Incite,v. t., To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on.
Inclip,v. t., To clasp; to inclose.
Income,n., A coming in; entrance; admittance; ingress; infusion.
Incony,a., Unlearned; artless; pretty; delicate.
Incube,v. t., To fix firmly, as in cube; to secure or place firmly. 
Incubi,pl. , of Incubus
Inculk,v. t., To inculcate.
Inculp,v. t., To inculpate.
Incult,a., Untilled; uncultivated; crude; rude; uncivilized.
Incuse,v. t., Cut or stamped in, or hollowed out by engraving. 
Incuss,v. t., To form, or mold, by striking or stamping, as a coin or medal. 
Incute,v. t., To strike or stamp in.
Incyst,v. t., See Encyst.
Indart,v. t., To pierce, as with a dart. 
Indear,v. t., See Endear.
Indebt,v. t., To bring into debt; to place under obligation; -- chiefly used in the participle indebted.
Indeed,adv., In reality; in truth; in fact; verily; truly; -- used in a variety of sense. Esp.: (a
Indent,v. t., To notch; to jag; to cut into points like a row of teeth; as, to indent the edge of paper. 
Indian,a., Of or pertaining to India proper; also to the East Indies, or, sometimes, to the West Indies. 
Indice,n., Index; indication.
Indict,v. t., To write; to compose; to dictate; to indite.
Indies,n. pl., A name designating the East Indies, also the West Indies. 
Indign,a., Unworthy; undeserving; disgraceful; degrading.
Indigo,n., A kind of deep blue, one of the seven prismatic colors. 
Indite,v. t., To compose; to write; to be author of; to dictate; to prompt.
Indium,n., A rare metallic element, discovered in certain ores of zinc, by means of its characteristic spectrum of two indigo blue lines; hence, its name. In appearance it resembles zinc, being white or lead gray, soft, malleable and easily fusible, but in its chemical relation it resembles aluminium or gallium. Symbol In. Atomic weight, 113.4. 
Indoin,n., A substance resembling indigo blue, obtained artificially from certain isatogen compounds. 
Indoor,a., Done or being within doors; within a house or institution; domestic; as, indoor work. 
Indris,n., Alt. of Indri
Induce,v. t., To lead in; to introduce.
Induct,v. t., To bring in; to introduce; to usher in.
Indued,imp. & p. p., of Indue
Indult,n., Alt. of Indulto
Ineyed,imp. & p. p., of Ineye
Infame,v. t., To defame; to make infamous.
Infamy,n., Total loss of reputation; public disgrace; dishonor; ignominy; indignity.
Infant,n., A child in the first period of life, beginning at his birth; a young babe; sometimes, a child several years of age. 
Infare,n., A house-warming; especially, a reception, party, or entertainment given by a newly married couple, or by the husband upon receiving the wife to his house. 
Infect,v. t., Infected. Cf. Enfect.
Infelt,a., Felt inwardly; heartfelt.
Infest,v. t., Mischievous; hurtful; harassing.
Infile,v. t., To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order.
Infilm,v. t., To cover with a film; to coat thinly; as, to infilm one metal with another in the process of gilding; to infilm the glass of a mirror. 
Infirm,a., Not firm or sound; weak; feeble; as, an infirm body; an infirm constitution. 
Inflex,v. t., To bend; to cause to become curved; to make crooked; to deflect.
Inflow,v. i., To flow in.
Influx,n., The act of flowing in; as, an influx of light. 
Infold,v. t., To wrap up or cover with folds; to envelop; to inwrap; to inclose; to involve.
Inform,a., Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed.
Infule,pl. , of Infula
Infula,n., A sort of fillet worn by dignitaries, priests, and others among the ancient Romans. It was generally white. 
Infuse,v. t., To pour in, as a liquid; to pour (into or upon
Ingate,n., Entrance; ingress.
Ingena,n., The gorilla.
Ingeny,n., Natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity.
Ingest,v. t., To take into, or as into, the stomach or alimentary canal. 
Ingirt,v. t., To encircle to gird; to engirt.
Inglut,v. t., To glut.
Inguen,n., The groin.
Ingulf,v. t., To swallow up or overwhelm in, or as in, a gulf; to cast into a gulf. See Engulf. 
Inhale,v. t., To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhale air; -- opposed to exhale. 
Inhaul,n., Alt. of Inhauler
Inhere,v. i., To be inherent; to stick (in
Inhive,v. t., To place in a hive; to hive.
Inheld,imp. & p. p., of Inhold
Inhold,v. t., To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess.
Inhoop,v. t., To inclose in a hoop, or as in a hoop. 
Inhume,v. t., To deposit, as a dead body, in the earth; to bury; to inter. 
Inisle,v. t., To form into an island; to surround.
Inject,v. t., To throw in; to dart in; to force in; as, to inject cold water into a condenser; to inject a medicinal liquid into a cavity of the body; to inject morphine with a hypodermic syringe. 
Injoin,v. t., See Enjoin.
Injure,v. t., To do harm to; to impair the excellence and value of; to hurt; to damage; -- used in a variety of senses; as: (a
Injury,a., Any damage or violation of, the person, character, feelings, rights, property, or interests of an individual; that which injures, or occasions wrong, loss, damage, or detriment; harm; hurt; loss; mischief; wrong; evil; as, his health was impaired by a severe injury; slander is an injury to the character. 
Inking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ink
Inknee,n., Same as Knock-knee.
Inknot,v. t., To fasten or bind, as with a knot; to knot together. 
Inlace,v. t., To work in, as lace; to embellish with work resembling lace; also, to lace or enlace. 
Inlaid,p. p., of Inlay.
Inland,a., Within the land; more or less remote from the ocean or from open water; interior; as, an inland town. 
Inlard,v. t., See Inlard.
Inlist,v. t., See Enlist.
Inlive,v. t., To animate.
Inlock,v. t., To lock in, or inclose. 
Inmacy,n., The state of being an inmate.
Inmate,n., One who lives in the same house or apartment with another; a fellow lodger; esp.,one of the occupants of an asylum, hospital, or prison; by extension, one who occupies or lodges in any place or dwelling. 
Inmesh,v. t., To bring within meshes, as of a net; to enmesh. 
Inmost,a., Deepest within; farthest from the surface or external part; innermost.
Inning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Inn
Innate,a., Inborn; native; natural; as, innate vigor; innate eloquence. 
Inning,n., Ingathering; harvesting.
Innuit,n., An Eskimo.
Inogen,n., A complex nitrogenous substance, which, by Hermann's hypothesis, is continually decomposed and reproduced in the muscles, during their life. 
Inrail,v. t., To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails. 
Inroad,n., The entrance of an enemy into a country with purposes of hostility; a sudden or desultory incursion or invasion; raid; encroachment.
Inroll,v. t., See Enroll.
Inrush,n., A rush inwards; as, the inrush of the tide. 
Insane,a., Exhibiting unsoundness or disorded of mind; not sane; mad; deranged in mind; delirious; distracted. See Insanity, 2. 
Inseam,v. t., To impress or mark with a seam or cicatrix.
Insect,n., One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta. 
Insert,v. t., To set within something; to put or thrust in; to introduce; to cause to enter, or be included, or contained; as, to insert a scion in a stock; to insert a letter, word, or passage in a composition; to insert an advertisement in a newspaper. 
Inship,v. t., To embark.
Inside,adv., Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as, inside a house, book, bottle, etc. 
Insist,v. i., To stand or rest; to find support; -- with in, on, or upon. 
Insole,n., The inside sole of a boot or shoe; also, a loose, thin strip of leather, felt, etc., placed inside the shoe for warmth or ease. 
Insoul,v. t., To set a soul in; reflexively, to fix one's strongest affections on. 
Inspan,v. t. & i., To yoke or harness, as oxen to a vehicle. 
Instar,v. t., To stud as with stars.
Instep,n., The arched middle portion of the human foot next in front of the ankle joint.
Instop,v. t., To stop; to close; to make fast; as, to instop the seams. 
Insult,v. t., The act of leaping on; onset; attack.
Insume,v. t., To take in; to absorb.
Insure,v. t., To make sure or secure; as, to insure safety to any one. 
Intact,a., Untouched, especially by anything that harms, defiles, or the like; uninjured; undefiled; left complete or entire. 
Intail,v. t., See Entail, v. t. 
Intake,n., The place where water or air is taken into a pipe or conduit; -- opposed to outlet.
Intend,v. t., To stretch' to extend; to distend.
Intent,a., Closely directed; strictly attentive; bent; -- said of the mind, thoughts, etc.; as, a mind intent on self-improvement. 
Intern,a., Internal.
Intext,n., The text of a book.
Intice,v. t., See Entice.
Intime,a., Inward; internal; intimate.
Intine,n., A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, which forms the innermost coating of grains of pollen. 
Intire,adv., Alt. of Intirely
Intomb,v. t., To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb.
Intone,v. t., To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant; as, to intone the church service. 
Intort,v. t., To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring.
Intrap,v. t., See Entrap.
Intune,v. t., To intone. Cf. Entune.
Intuse,n., A bruise; a contusion.
Inulin,n., A substance of very wide occurrence. It is found dissolved in the sap of the roots and rhizomes of many composite and other plants, as Inula, Helianthus, Campanula, etc., and is extracted by solution as a tasteless, white, semicrystalline substance, resembling starch, with which it is isomeric. It is intermediate in nature between starch and sugar. Called also dahlin, helenin, alantin, etc. 
Inured,imp. & p. p., of Inure
Invade,v. t., To go into or upon; to pass within the confines of; to enter; -- used of forcible or rude ingress.
Invect,v. i., To inveigh.
Inveil,v. t., To cover, as with a vail. 
Invent,v. t., To come or light upon; to meet; to find.
Invert,v. t., To turn over; to put upside down; to upset; to place in a contrary order or direction; to reverse; as, to invert a cup, the order of words, rules of justice, etc. 
Invest,v. t., To put garments on; to clothe; to dress; to array; -- opposed to divest. Usually followed by with, sometimes by in; as, to invest one with a robe. 
Invict,a., Invincible.
Invile,v. t., To render vile.
Invite,v. t., To ask; to request; to bid; to summon; to ask to do some act, or go to some place; esp., to ask to an entertainment or visit; to request the company of; as, to invite to dinner, or a wedding, or an excursion. 
Invoke,v. t., To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly or solemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand by invocation; to implore; as, to invoke the Supreme Being, or to invoke His and blessing. 
Inwall,v. t., To inclose or fortify as with a wall.
Inward,a., Being or placed within; inner; interior; -- opposed to outward.
Inwith,prep., Within.
Inwork,v. t. & i., To work in or within.
Itworn,p. a., Worn, wrought, or stamped in. 
Inwrap,v. t., To cover by wrapping; to involve; to infold; as, to inwrap in a cloak, in smoke, etc. 
Iodate,n., A salt of iodic acid.
Iodide,n., A binary compound of iodine, or one which may be regarded as binary; as, potassium iodide. 
Iodine,n., A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring always in combination, as in the iodides. When isolated it is in the form of dark gray metallic scales, resembling plumbago, soft but brittle, and emitting a chlorinelike odor. Symbol I. Atomic weight 126.5. If heated, iodine volatilizes in beautiful violet vapors. 
Iodism,n., A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds, and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation, with a pustular eruption upon the skin. 
Iodize,v. t., To treat or impregnate with iodine or its compounds; as, to iodize a plate for photography. 
Iodous,a., Pertaining to, or containing, iodine. See -ous (chemical suffix
Iolite,n., A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue color and vitreous luster; cordierite. It is remarkable for its dichroism, and is also called dichroite. 
Ionian,a., Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians; Ionic.
Ipecac,n., An abbreviation of Ipecacuanha, and in more frequent use. 
Iranic,a., Iranian.
Ireful,a., Full of ire; angry; wroth.
Irenic,a., Alt. of Irenical
Iridal,a., Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, the iridal colors. 
Iridic,a., Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye.
Irises,pl. , of Iris
Irides,pl. , of Iris
Irised,a., Having colors like those of the rainbow; iridescent.
Iritis,n., An inflammation of the iris of the eye.
Ironed,imp. & p. p., of Iron
Ironer,n., One who, or that which, irons. 
Ironic,a., Ironical.
Isabel,, Alt. of Isabel color
Isagel,n., One of two or more objects containing the same information.
Isagon,a., A figure or polygon whose angles are equal.
Isatic,a., Alt. of Isatinic
Isatin,n., An orange-red crystalline substance, C8H5NO2, obtained by the oxidation of indigo blue. It is also produced from certain derivatives of benzoic acid, and is one important source of artificial indigo. 
Isatis,n., A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatis tinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad. 
Isicle,n., A icicle.
Island,n., A tract of land surrounded by water, and smaller than a continent. Cf. Continent. 
Isobar,n., A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of the earth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the same either at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height
Isomer,n., A body or compound which is isomeric with another body or compound; a member of an isomeric series.
Isopod,a., Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda.
Issued,imp. & p. p., of Issue
Issuer,n., One who issues, emits, or publishes. 
Isuret,n., An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine. 
Italic,a., Relating to Italy or to its people.
Itched,imp. & p. p., of Itch
Itemed,imp. & p. p., of Item
Itself,pron., The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself. 
Ittria,n., See Yttria.
Itzibu,n., A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. 
Ixodes,n., A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of ticks. See Tick, the insect. 
Izzard,n., See Izard.
Jabber,v. i., To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter. 
Jabiru,n., One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits. 
Jacana,n., Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird. 
Jacare,n., A cayman. See Yacare.
Jacent,a., Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. 
Jackal,n., Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly, nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are noted for their piercing and dismal howling. 
Jacket,n., A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short coat without skirts. 
Jading,p. pr. & vb. n., of Jade
Jadery,n., The tricks of a jade.
Jadish,a., Vicious; ill-tempered; resembling a jade; -- applied to a horse.
Jaeger,n., See Jager.
Jagged,imp. & p. p., of Jag
Jagger,n., One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.
Jaghir,n., A village or district the government and revenues of which are assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops. 
Jaguar,n., A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca
Jailer,n., The keeper of a jail or prison.
Jairou,n., The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.
Jalons,n. pl., Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and signals. 
Jammed,imp. & p. p., of Jam
Jambee,n., A fashionable cane.
Jambes,n., Alt. of Jambeux
Jangle,v. i., To sound harshly or discordantly, as bells out of tune. 
Janker,n., A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs. 
Japery,n., Jesting; buffoonery.
Jarred,imp. & p. p., of Jar
Jarble,v. t., To wet; to bemire.
Jargle,v. i., To emit a harsh or discordant sound.
Jargon,n., Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang. 
Jarnut,n., An earthnut.
Jarrah,n., The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata. See Eucalyptus.
Jarvey,n., Alt. of Jarvy
Jasper,n., An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a high polish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When the colors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped / banded jasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper. 
Jaunce,v. i., To ride hard; to jounce.
Jaunty,superl., Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner. 
Jawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Jaw
Jeames,n., A footman; a flunky.
Jeered,imp. & p. p., of Jeer
Jeerer,n., A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.
Jejune,a., Lacking matter; empty; void of substance.
Jemlah,, The jharal.
Jenite,n., See Yenite.
Jennet,n., A small Spanish horse; a genet.
Jerboa,n., Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Aegyptius, which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas have very long hind legs and a long tail. 
Jereed,n., A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in mock fights. 
Jerked,imp. & p. p., of Jerk
Jerker,n., A beater.
Jerkin,n., A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat.
Jersey,n., The finest of wool separated from the rest; combed wool; also, fine yarn of wool. 
Jesses,pl. , of Jess
Jessed,a., Having jesses on, as a hawk. 
Jested,imp. & p. p., of Jest
Jester,n., A buffoon; a merry-andrew; a court fool.
Jesuit,n., One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, and approved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus. 
Jetted,imp. & p. p., of Jet
Jetsam,n., Alt. of Jetson
Jetson,n., Goods which sink when cast into the sea, and remain under water; -- distinguished from flotsam, goods which float, and ligan, goods which are sunk attached to a buoy. 
Jettee,n., See Jetty, n. 
Jetter,n., One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop.
Jetton,n., A metal counter used in playing cards.
Jewess,fem., A Hebrew woman.
Jewise,n., Same as Juise.
Jewish,a., Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish.
Jharal,n., A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica
Jibber,n., A horse that jibs.
Jibing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Jibe
Jigged,imp. & p. p., of Jig
Jigger,n., A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, / Pulex, penetrans
Jiggle,v. i., To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and down.
Jigjog,n., A jolting motion; a jogging pace.
Jilted,imp. & p. p., of Jilt
Jimson,, See Jamestown weed.
Jingal,n., A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel. 
Jingle,v. i., To sound with a fine, sharp, rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound; as, sleigh bells jingle. 
Jinnee,n., A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms. 
Jobbed,imp. & p. p., of Job
Jobber,n., One who works by the job.
Jockey,n., A professional rider of horses in races.
Jocose,a., Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous. 
Jocund,, Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.
Jogged,imp. & p. p., of Jog
Jogger,n., One who jogs.
Joggle,v. t., To shake slightly; to push suddenly but slightly, so as to cause to shake or totter; to jostle; to jog. 
Johnny,n., A familiar diminutive of John.
Joined,imp. & p. p., of Join
Joiner,n., One who, or that which, joins. 
Joking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Joke
Jolted,imp. & p. p., of Jolt
Jolter,n., One who, or that which, jolts. 
Jordan,n., Alt. of Jorden
Jorden,n., A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and alchemists. 
Joseph,n., An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's riding habit, buttoned down the front. 
Jostle,v. t., To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against.
Jotted,imp. & p. p., of Jot
Jotter,n., One who jots down memoranda.
Jounce,v. t. & i., To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions. 
Jovial,a., Of or pertaining to the god, or the planet, Jupiter. 
Jovian,a., Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the planet
Jowler,n., A dog with large jowls, as the beagle. 
Jowter,n., A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster.
Joying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Joy
Joyace,n., Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness.
Joyful,a., Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful heart. 
Joyous,a., Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy; with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy. 
Jubate,a., Fringed with long, pendent hair. 
Judaic,a., Alt. of Judaical
Judean,a., Of or pertaining to Judea.
Judged,imp. & p. p., of Judge
Judger,n., One who judges.
Jugged,imp. & p. p., of Jug
Jugata,n. pl., The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side by side or joined. 
Jugger,n., An East Indian falcon. See Lugger.
Juggle,v. i., To play tricks by sleight of hand; to cause amusement and sport by tricks of skill; to conjure.
Jugula,pl. , of Jugulum
Jugums,pl. , of Jugum
Jujube,n., The sweet and edible drupes (fruits
Julian,a., Relating to, or derived from, Julius Caesar. 
Julies,pl. , of July
Jumart,n., The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare.
Jumble,v. t., To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together without order; -- often followed by together or up.
Jument,n., A beast; especially, a beast of burden. 
Jumped,imp. & p. p., of Jump
Jumper,n., One who, or that which, jumps. 
Jungle,n., A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil. 
Jungly,a., Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of a jungle.
Junior,a., Less advanced in age than another; younger.
Junker,n., A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the aristocratic party in Prussia. 
Junket,n., A cheese cake; a sweetmeat; any delicate food.
Juntas,pl. , of Junta
Juntos,pl. , of Junto
Jupati,, A great Brazilian palm tree (Raphia taedigera
Juppon,n., A sleeveless jacket worn over the armor in the 14th century. It fitted closely, and descended below the hips. 
Jurdon,n., Jordan.
Jurist,a., One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law, especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law. 
Juries,pl. , of Jury
Justle,v. i., To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; to jostle.
Justly,a., In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety; by right; honestly; fairly; accurately. 
Jutted,imp. & p. p., of Jut
Juwise,n., Same as Juise.
Junold,a., See Gimmal.
Kabala,n., See Cabala.
Kabook,n., A clay ironstone found in Ceylon.
Kabyle,n., A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber. 
Kadder,n., The jackdaw.
Kaffir,n., Alt. of Kafir
Kaffle,n., See Coffle.
Kaftan,n & v., See Caftan.
Kaguan,n., The colugo.
Kahani,n., A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant. 
Kainit,n., Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.
Kaique,n., See Caique.
Kaiser,n., The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in 1871.
Kakapo,n., A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus
Kalium,n., Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.
Kalmia,n., A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel, ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc. 
Kalong,n., A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus edulis
Kamala,n., The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree (Mallotus Philippinensis
Kamsin,n., Alt. of Khamsin
Kanaka,n., A native of the Sandwich Islands.
Kansas,n. pl., A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but were removed to the Indian Territory. 
Kaolin,n., Alt. of Kaoline
Karreo,n., One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise terracelike to considerable elevations. 
Karvel,n., See Carvel, and Caravel. 
Kasack,n., Same as Cossack.
Kavass,n., An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier. 
Kawaka,n., a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana
Kayles,n. pl., A game; ninepins.
Kecked,imp. & p. p., of Keck
Keckle,v. i. & n., See Keck, v. i. & n. 
Kecksy,n., The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow parsnip or the hemlock. 
Kedged,imp. & p. p., of Kedge
Kedger,n., A small anchor; a kedge.
Keeled,imp. & p. p., of Keel
Keeler,n., One employed in managing a Newcastle keel; -- called also keelman.
Keener,n., A professional mourner who wails at a funeral.
Keenly,adv., In a keen manner.
Keeper,n., One who, or that which, keeps; one who, or that which, holds or has possession of anything. 
Keeved,imp. & p. p., of Keeve
Keever,n., See Keeve, n. 
Keloid,a., Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular excrescences upon the skin. 
Kelpie,n., Alt. of Kelpy
Kelson,n., See Keelson.
Kelter,n., Regular order or proper condition.
Keltic,a. & n., Same as Celtic, a. & n. 
Kembed,imp. & p. p., of Kemb
Kempty,n., Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality. 
Kenned,imp. & p. p., of Ken
Kendal,, Alt. of Kendal
Kennel,n., The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a gutter; also, a puddle. 
Kentle,n., A hundred weight; a quintal.
Kerana,n., A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians. 
Kerite,n., A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in telegraphy. 
Kermes,n., The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis
Kerned,imp. & p. p., of Kern
Kernel,n., The essential part of a seed; all that is within the seed walls; the edible substance contained in the shell of a nut; hence, anything included in a shell, husk, or integument; as, the kernel of a nut. See Illust. of Endocarp. 
Kerish,a., Clownish; boorish.
Kersey,n., A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool of long staple. 
Kerver,n., A carver.
Keslop,n., The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet. 
Ketine,n., One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor.
Ketmie,n., The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for the acid of their mucilage. 
Ketone,n., One of a large class of organic substances resembling the aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO
Kettle,n., A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover, used for heating and boiling water or other liguids. 
Keuper,n., The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of Geology.
Keying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Key
Keyage,n., Wharfage; quayage.
Keyway,n., See Key way, under Key. 
Khenna,n., See Henna.
Kholah,n., The Indian jackal.
Kibble,v. t., To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. 
Kiblah,n., See Keblah.
Kichil,n., See Kechil.
Kicred,imp. & p. p., of Kick
Kicker,n., One who, or that which, kicks. 
Kickup,n., The water thrush or accentor.
Kidded,imp. & p. p., of Kid
Kiddle,n., A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish. 
Kiddow,n., The guillemot.
Kidfox,, A young fox.
Kidnap,v. t., To take (any one
Kidney,n., A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products from the animal body; a urinary gland.
Killed,imp. & p. p., of Kill
Killer,n., One who deprives of life; one who, or that which, kills. 
Killow,n., An earth of a blackish or deep blue color.
Kilted,imp. & p. p., of Kilt
Kilter,n., See Kelter.
Kimnel,n., A tub. See Kemelin.
Kinate,n., See Quinate.
Kincob,n., India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.
Kindle,v. t. & i., To bring forth young.
Kindly,n., According to the kind or nature; natural.
Kinged,imp. & p. p., of King
Kingly,superl., Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. 
King's,, Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high court of justice created by that legislation. 
Kinked,imp. & p. p., of Kink
Kinkle,n., Same as 3d Kink.
Kinone,n., See Quinone.
Kinoyl,n., See Quinoyl.
Kipper,n., A salmon after spawning.
Kirked,a., Turned upward; bent.
Kirtle,n., A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn doth by men and women. 
Kismet,n., Destiny; fate.
Kissed,imp. & p. p., of Kiss
Kisser,n., One who kisses.
Kitcat,a., Designating a club in London, to which Addison and Steele belonged; -- so called from Christopher Cat, a pastry cook, who served the club with mutton pies. 
Kitish,a., Like or relating to a kite.
Kittel,v. t., See Kittle, v. t. 
Kitten,n., A young cat.
Kittle,v. i., To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter. 
Knacky,a., Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish.
Knaggy,a., Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper. 
Knappy,a., Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby.
Knarry,a., Knotty; gnarled.
Knawel,n., A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus
Knives,pl. , of Knife
Knifed,imp. & p. p., of Knife
Knight,n., A young servant or follower; a military attendant.
Knitch,n., Alt. of Knitchet
Knives,n. pl., of Knife. See Knife.
Knobby,a., Full of, or covered with, knobs or hard protuberances. 
Knotty,superl., Full of knots; knotted; having many knots; as, knotty timber; a knotty rope. 
Knower,n., One who knows.
Knurly,superl., Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or resisting much. 
Knurry,a., Full of knots.
Koaita,n., Same as Coaita.
Kobalt,n., See Cobalt.
Kobold,n., A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow. 
Kohnur,n., A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the annexation of the Punjab. According to Hindoo legends, it was found in a Golconda mine, and has been the property of various Hindoo and Persian rulers. 
Kokama,n., The gemsbok.
Kokoon,n., The gnu.
Komtok,n., An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens
Konite,n., See Conite.
Koodoo,n., A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu
Kopeck,n., A small Russian coin. One hundred kopecks make a rouble, worth about sixty cents. 
Kosmos,n., See Cosmos.
Koulan,n., A wild horse (Equus, / Asinus, onager
Kousso,n., An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica
Kowtow,n. & v. i., The same as Kotow.
Kraken,n., A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented as resembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus. 
Kukang,n., The slow lemur. See Lemur.
Kuklux,n., The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by a secret political organization, active for several years after the close of the Civil War, and having for its aim the repression of the political power of the freedmen; -- called also Kuklux Klan. 
Kumish,n., Alt. of Kumiss
Kumiss,n., See Koumiss.
Kummel,n., A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spirit flavored with caraway seeds. 
Kuskus,, See Vetiver.
Kyanol,n., Aniline.
Kyloes,n. pl., The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands. 
Kymnel,n., See Kimnel.
Kymric,a & n., See Cymric, a. & n. 
Kythed,p. p., of Kithe
Labara,pl. , of Labarum
Labefy,v. t., To weaken or impair.
Labent,a., Slipping; sliding; gliding.
Labial,a., Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins. 
Labile,a., Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize. 
Labium,n., A lip, or liplike organ. 
Lablab,n., an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean (Dolichos Lablab
Labras,n. pl., Lips.
Labrum,n., A lip or edge, as of a basin. 
Labrus,n., A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See Wrasse. 
Laccic,a., Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid. 
Laccin,n., A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.
Lacing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lace
Lacert,n., A muscle of the human body.
Laches,n., Alt. of Lache
Lacing,n., The act of securing, fastening, or tightening, with a lace or laces. 
Lacked,imp. & p. p., of Lack
Lacker,n., One who lacks or is in want.
Lackey,v., An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.
Lacmus,n., See Litmus.
Lactam,n., One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to the lactones, as oxindol. 
Lactic,a., Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as, lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. 
Lactim,n., One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam. 
Lactin,n., See Lactose.
Lactyl,n., An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.
Lacuna,n., A small opening; a small pit or depression; a small blank space; a gap or vacancy; a hiatus.
Lacune,n., A lacuna.
Ladder,v. i., A frame usually portable, of wood, metal, or rope, for ascent and descent, consisting of two side pieces to which are fastened cross strips or rounds forming steps. 
Laddie,n., A lad; a male sweetheart.
Lading,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lade
Ladied,a., Ladylike; not rough; gentle.
Ladify,v. t., To make a lady of; to make ladylike.
Lading,n., The act of loading.
Ladino,n., One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of a yellowish orange tinge.
Ladkin,n., A little lad.
Ladled,imp. & p. p., of Ladle
Ladies,pl. , of Lady
Lady's,, The common bedstraw (Galium verum
Lagged,imp. & p. p., of Lag
Lagena,n., The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes and amphibians. 
Lagger,n., A laggard.
Lagoon,n., A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice. 
Lagune,n., See Lagoon.
Laical,a., Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity.
Laidly,a., Ugly; loathsome.
Lammed,imp. & p. p., of Lam
Lamaic,a., Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
Lambed,imp. & p. p., of Lamb
Lambda,n., The name of the Greek letter /, /, corresponding with the English letter L, l. 
Laming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lame
Lamely,adv., An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk lamely; a figure lamely drawn. 
Lament,v. i., To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.
Lamina,n., A thin plate or scale; a layer or coat lying over another; -- said of thin plates or platelike substances, as of bone or minerals. 
Lamish,a., Somewhat lame.
Lammas,n., The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and Lammastide. 
Lampad,n., A lamp or candlestick.
Lampas,n., An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers.
Lamper,, See Lamprey.
Lampic,a., Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid. 
Lanary,n., A place for storing wool.
Lanate,, Alt. of Lanated
Lanced,imp. & p. p., of Lance
Lancer,n., One who lances; one who carries a lance; especially, a member of a mounted body of men armed with lances, attached to the cavalry service of some nations. 
Lancet,n., A surgical instrument of various forms, commonly sharp-pointed and two-edged, used in venesection, and in opening abscesses, etc. 
Landed,imp. & p. p., of Land
Landau,n., A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a manner as to make an open carriage. 
Landed,a., Having an estate in land.
Lander,n., One who lands, or makes a landing. 
Langue,, The dialect, closely akin to French, formerly spoken south of the Loire (in which the word for   yes   was oc
Langya,n., One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also walking fishes. 
Lanier,n., A thong of leather; a whip lash.
Lankly,adv., In a lank manner.
Lanner,n. m., Alt. of Lanneret
Lanseh,n., The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum
Lanugo,n., The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth. 
Lanyer,n., See Lanier.
Lapped,imp. & p. p., of Lap
Lapdog,n., A small dog fondled in the lap.
Lapful,n., As much as the lap can contain.
Lapper,n., One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.
Lappet,n., A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a garment or headdress. 
Lappic,a., Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps. 
Lapsed,imp. & p. p., of Lapse
Laguay,n., A lackey.
Larded,imp. & p. p., of Lard
Larder,n., A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept before they are cooked.
Lardon,n., Alt. of Lardoon
Lardry,n., A larder.
Larget,n., A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small billet.
Lariat,n., A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc., and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering. 
Larine,a., Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridae
Larked,imp. & p. p., of Lark
Larker,n., A catcher of larks.
Laroid,a., Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridae
Larrup,v. t., To beat or flog soundly.
Larvae,pl. , of Larva
Larvas,pl. , of Larva
Larval,a., Of or pertaining to a larva.
Larves,pl. , of Larve
Larynx,n., The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected with the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, which produce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and a current of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with the pharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protected by a lidlike epiglottis. 
Lascar,n., A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower. 
Lashed,imp. & p. p., of Lash
Lashng,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lash
Lasher,n., One who whips or lashes.
Lasket,n., latching.
Lassie,n., A young girl; a lass.
Lassos,pl. , of Lasso
Lasted,imp. & p. p., of Last
Laster,n., A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a last. 
Lastly,adv., In the last place; in conclusion.
Lateen,a., Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below. 
Lately,adv., Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy. 
Latent,a., Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action.
Lathed,imp. & p. p., of Lath
Lather,n., Foam or froth made by soap moistened with water.
Latian,a., Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy. See Latin. 
Lation,n., Transportation; conveyance.
Latish,a., Somewhat late.
Latoun,n., Latten, 1. 
Latria,n., The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; -- distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior worship paid to saints. 
Latten,n., A kind of brass hammered into thin sheets, formerly much used for making church utensils, as candlesticks, crosses, etc.; -- called also latten brass. 
Latter,a., Later; more recent; coming or happening after something else; -- opposed to former; as, the former and latter rain. 
Lauded,imp. & p. p., of Laud
Lauder,n., One who lauds.
Launce,n., A lance.
Launch,v. i., To throw, as a lance or dart; to hurl; to let fly. 
Laurel,n., An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis
Laurer,n., Laurel.
Lauric,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel (Laurus nobilis
Laurin,n., A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the bay (Laurus nobilis
Laurus,n., A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only the true laurel (Laurus nobilis
Laving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lave
Laveer,v. i., To beat against the wind; to tack.
Lavish,a., Expending or bestowing profusely; profuse; prodigal; as, lavish of money; lavish of praise. 
Lavolt,n., Alt. of Lavolta
Lavour,n., A laver.
Lawful,a., Conformable to law; allowed by law; legitimate; competent.
Lawing,n., Going to law; litigation.
Lawyer,n., One versed in the laws, or a practitioner of law; one whose profession is to conduct lawsuits for clients, or to advise as to prosecution or defence of lawsuits, or as to legal rights and obligations in other matters. It is a general term, comprehending attorneys, counselors, solicitors, barristers, sergeants, and advocates. 
Laxity,a., The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness. 
Laying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lay
Laymen,pl. , of Layman
Layman,n., One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession, in distinction from those who do. 
Layner,n., A whiplash.
Lazing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Laze
Lazily,adv., In a lazy manner.
Lazuli,n., A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with some sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins of sulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called also lapis lazuli, and Armenian stone. 
Leachy,a., Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy soils, and the like. 
Leaded,imp. & p. p., of Lead
Leaden,a., Made of lead; of the nature of lead; as, a leaden ball. 
Leader,n., One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor. 
Leaves,pl. , of Leaf
Leafed,imp. & p. p., of Leaf
Leafet,n., A leaflet.
League,n., A measure of length or distance, varying in different countries from about 2.4 to 4.6 English statute miles of 5.280 feet each, and used (as a land measure
Leaked,imp. & p. p., of Leak
Leamer,n., A dog held by a leam.
Leaned,imp. & p. p., of Lean
Leanly,adv., Meagerly; without fat or plumpness.
Leaped,imp. & p. p., of Leap
Leaper,n., One who, or that which, leaps. 
Learnt,, of Learn
Leased,imp. & p. p., of Lease
Leaser,n., One who leases or gleans.
Leasow,n., A pasture.
Leaved,imp. & p. p., of Leave
Leaven,n., Any substance that produces, or is designed to produce, fermentation, as in dough or liquids; esp., a portion of fermenting dough, which, mixed with a larger quantity of dough, produces a general change in the mass, and renders it light; yeast; barm. 
Leaver,n., One who leaves, or withdraws. 
Leaves,n., pl. of Leaf.
Lebban,n., Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage among the Arabs. Also, a fermented liquor made of the same. 
Lecama,n., The hartbeest.
Lecher,n., A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree, to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with women. 
Lector,n., A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read lessons to the illiterate. 
Ledden,n., Language; speech; voice; cry.
Ledger,n., A book in which a summary of accounts is laid up or preserved; the final book of record in business transactions, in which all debits and credits from the journal, etc., are placed under appropriate heads. 
Leered,imp. & p. p., of Leer
Leeway,n., The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course; drift.
Legacy,n., A gift of property by will, esp. of money or personal property; a bequest. Also Fig.; as, a legacy of dishonor or disease. 
Legate,n., An ambassador or envoy.
Legato,a., Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often indicated by a tie, thus /, /, or /, /, written over or under the notes to be so performed; -- opposed to staccato. 
Legend,n., That which is appointed to be read; especially, a chronicle or register of the lives of saints, formerly read at matins, and in the refectories of religious houses. 
Legged,a., Having (such or so many
Leggin,n., A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter. 
Legion,n., A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of different numbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to about six thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth. 
Legist,n., One skilled in the laws; a writer on law.
Legume,n., A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed attached at one suture, as that of the pea. 
Leiger,n., See Leger, n., 2. 
Leipoa,n., A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single species (Leipoa ocellata
Lister,n., A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish. 
Lemmas,pl. , of Lemma
Lemman,n., A leman.
Lender,n., One who lends.
Lendes,n. pl., See Lends.
Lenger,a., Alt. of Lengest
Length,a., The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in distinction from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its sides; as, the length of a church, or of a ship; the length of a rope or line. 
Lenify,v. t., To assuage; to soften; to mitigate; to alleviate.
Lenity,n., The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency; -- opposed to severity and rigor.
Lenses,pl. , of Lens
Lenten,n., Lent.
Lentil,n., A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens
Lentor,a., Tenacity; viscidity, as of fluids. 
Leonid,n., One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty-three years; -- so called because these shooting stars appear on the heavens to move in lines directed from the constellation Leo.
Leptus,n., The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimes used as a generic name. See Harvest mite, under Harvest. 
Lesion,n., A hurt; an injury.
Lessee,v. t., The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate by lease. 
Lessen,a., To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or a population; to lessen speed, rank, fortune. 
Lesser,a., Less; smaller; inferior.
Lesses,v. t., The leavings or dung of beasts.
Lesson,n., Anything read or recited to a teacher by a pupil or learner; something, as a portion of a book, assigned to a pupil to be studied or learned at one time. 
Lessor,v. t., One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease. 
Letted,, of Let
Letchy,a., See Leachy.
Lethal,n., One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtained from spermaceti as a white crystalline solid. It is so called because it occurs in the ethereal salt of lauric acid.
Letted,imp. & p. p., of Lette
Letter,n., One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire.
Lettic,a., Of or pertaining to the Letts; Lettish.
Leucic,a., Alt. of Leucinic
Leucin,n., A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in the decomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by the action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction. It is also found as a constituent of various tissues and organs, as the spleen, pancreas, etc., and likewise in the vegetable kingdom. Chemically it is to be considered as amido-caproic acid. 
Levana,n., A goddess who protected newborn infants.
Levant,a., Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. See Couchant and levant, under Couchant. 
Levari,, A writ of execution at common law.
Levier,n., One who levies.
Levite,n., One of the tribe or family of Levi; a descendant of Levi; esp., one subordinate to the priests (who were of the same tribe
Levity,n., The quality of weighing less than something else of equal bulk; relative lightness, especially as shown by rising through, or floating upon, a contiguous substance; buoyancy; -- opposed to gravity. 
Levies,pl. , of Levy
Levied,imp. & p. p., of Levy
Levyne,n., Alt. of Levynite
Leyden,, Alt. of Leyden phial
Leyser,n., Leisure.
Liable,v. t., Bound or obliged in law or equity; responsible; answerable; as, the surety is liable for the debt of his principal. 
Libant,a., Sipping; touching lightly.
Libken,n., Alt. of Libkin
Libkin,n., A house or lodging.
Librae,pl. , of Libra
Libral,a., Of a pound weight.
Libyan,a., Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part of Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole. 
Lichen,n., One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technically called Lichenes
Licked,imp. & p. p., of Lick
Licker,n., One who, or that which, licks. 
Licour,n., Liquor.
Lictor,n., An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of his office. His duty was to attend the chief magistrates when they appeared in public, to clear the way, and cause due respect to be paid to them, also to apprehend and punish criminals. 
Lidded,a., Covered with a lid.
Lieder,pl. , of Lied
Lieger,n., A resident ambassador.
Lienal,a., Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic.
Lierne,, In Gothic vaulting, any rib which does not spring from the impost and is not a ridge rib, but passes from one boss or intersection of the principal ribs to another. 
Lifely,a., In a lifelike manner.
Lifted,imp. & p. p., of Lift
Lifter,n., One who, or that which, lifts. 
Ligate,v. t., To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage.
Ligger,n., A baited line attached to a float, for night fishing. See Leger, a. 
Lighte,, imp. of Light, to alight. 
Lights,n. pl., The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied to the lungs of a human being.
Lighty,a., Illuminated.
Lignin,n., A substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.
Lignum,, The fragrant wood of several shrubs and trees, especially of species of Rhodorhiza from the Canary Islands, and of the West Indian Amyris balsamifera. 
Ligsam,n., Same as Ligan.
Ligula,n., See Ligule.
Ligule,n., The thin and scarious projection from the upper end of the sheath of a leaf of grass.
Ligure,n., A kind of precious stone.
Liking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Like
Likely,a., Worthy of belief; probable; credible; as, a likely story. 
Liking,p. a., Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, to look. 
Lilial,a., Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants.
Lilied,a., Covered with, or having many, lilies. 
Lilies,pl. , of Lily
Limbat,n., A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing from the northwest from eight o'clock, A. M., to the middle of the day or later. 
Limbec,n., An alembic; a still.
Limbed,a., Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed; short-limbed. 
Limber,n., The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage.
Limbus,n., An extramundane region where certain classes of souls were supposed to await the judgment.
Liming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lime
Limmer,a., Limber.
Limned,imp. & p. p., of Limn
Limner,n., A painter; an artist
Limous,a., Muddy; slimy; thick.
Limped,imp. & p. p., of Limp
Limper,n., One who limps.
Limpet,n., In a general sense, any hatshaped, or conical, gastropod shell. 
Limpid,a., Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid stream. 
Limpin,n., A limpet.
Limpsy,a., Alt. of Limsy
Limule,n., A limulus.
Limuli,pl. , of Limulus
Linage,n., See Lineage.
Linchi,n., An esculent swallow.
Linden,n., A handsome tree (Tilia Europaea
Lindia,n., A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of ciliated disks. By some zoologists it is thought to be like the ancestral form of the Arthropoda. 
Lining,p. pr. & vb. n., of Line
Lineal,a., Descending in a direct line from an ancestor; hereditary; derived from ancestors; -- opposed to collateral; as, a lineal descent or a lineal descendant. 
Linear,a., Of or pertaining to a line; consisting of lines; in a straight direction; lineal.
Lingam,n., The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in his character of the creative and reproductive power.
Lingel,n., A shoemaker's thread.
Linger,a., To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate.
Linget,n., An ingot.
Lingle,n., See Lingel.
Lingoa,, Amboyna wood.
Lingot,n., A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget. 
Lingua,n., A tongue.
Lining,n., The act of one who lines; the act or process of making lines, or of inserting a lining. 
Linked,imp. & p. p., of Link
Linnet,n., Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina
Linsey,n., Linsey-woolsey.
Lintel,n., A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise fracture. 
Lintie,n., Alt. of Lintwhite
Lionel,n., The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.
Lionet,n., A young or small lion.
Lionly,a., Like a lion; fierce.
Lion's,, A name given in Western South America to certain plants with shaggy tomentose leaves, as species of Culcitium, and Espeletia. 
Lions',pl. , of Lion's tooth
Lion's,, See Leontodon.
Lipped,imp. & p. p., of Lip
Lipans,n. pl., A tribe of North American Indians, inhabiting the northern part of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closely related to the Apaches. 
Liplet,n., A little lip.
Lipoma,n., A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.
Lipped,a., Having a lip or lips; having a raised or rounded edge resembling the lip; -- often used in composition; as, thick-lipped, thin-lipped, etc. 
Liquid,a., Flowing freely like water; fluid; not solid.
Liquor,n., Any liquid substance, as water, milk, blood, sap, juice, or the like. 
Lisbon,n., A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon, in Portugal. 
Lisped,imp. & p. p., of Lisp
Lisper,n., One who lisps.
Lissom,a., Alt. of Lissome
Listed,imp. & p. p., of List
Listel,n., Same as List, n., 6. 
Listen,v. i., To give close attention with the purpose of hearing; to give ear; to hearken; to attend.
Lister,n., One who makes a list or roll.
Litany,n., A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is usually of a penitential character. 
Litchi,n., The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi
Lither,a., Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful.
Lithia,n., The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to potash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium. 
Lithic,a., Of or pertaining to stone; as, lithic architecture. 
Litmus,n., A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, etc.
Litter,n., A bed or stretcher so arranged that a person, esp. a sick or wounded person, may be easily carried in or upon it. 
Little,a., Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground; a little hill; a little distance; a little child. 
Litate,a., Forked, with the points slightly curved outward. 
Lituus,n., A curved staff used by the augurs in quartering the heavens.
Living,p. pr. & vb. n., of Live
Lively,superl., Endowed with or manifesting life; living.
Livery,n., The act of delivering possession of lands or tenements.
Laving,v. i., Being alive; having life; as, a living creature. 
Living,n., The state of one who, or that which, lives; lives; life; existence. 
Lizard,n., Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria. 
Llanos,pl. , of Llano
Loaded,imp. & p. p., of Load
Loader,n., One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance for loading, as a gun. 
Loaves,pl. , of Loaf
Loafed,imp. & p. p., of Loaf
Loafer,n., One who loafs; a lazy lounger.
Loamed,imp. & p. p., of Loam
Loaned,imp. & p. p., of Loan
Loanin,n., Alt. of Loaning
Loathe,v. t., To feel extreme disgust at, or aversion for. 
Loathy,a., Loathsome.
Loaves,n., pl. of Loaf.
Lobbed,imp. & p. p., of Lob
Lobate,a., Alt. of Lobated
Lobosa,n. pl., An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick and irregular in form, as in the Amoeba. 
Lobule,n., A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe.
Locale,n., A place, spot, or location. 
Locate,v. t., To place; to set in a particular spot or position.
Lochan,n., A small lake; a pond.
Lochia,n. pl., The discharge from the womb and vagina which follows childbirth.
Locked,imp. & p. p., of Lock
Locken,obs. p. p., of Lock.
Locker,n., One who, or that which, locks. 
Locket,n., A small lock; a catch or spring to fasten a necklace or other ornament.
Lockup,n., A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; a watchhouse.
Locule,n., A little hollow; a loculus.
Loculi,pl. , of Loculus
Locust,n., Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory, orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididae, allied to the grasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, / Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridium perigrinum, of Southern Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the United States the related species with similar habits are usually called grasshoppers. See Grasshopper. 
Lodged,imp. & p. p., of Lodge
Lodger,n., One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired room in another's house. 
Logged,imp. & p. p., of Log
Loggan,n., See Logan.
Loggat,n., A small log or piece of wood.
Logged,a., Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged.
Logger,n., One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i. 
Loggia,n., A roofed open gallery. It differs from a veranda in being more architectural, and in forming more decidedly a part of the main edifice to which it is attached; from a porch, in being intended not for entrance but for an out-of-door sitting-room. 
Logics,n., See Logic.
Logmen,pl. , of Logman
Logman,n., A man who carries logs.
Lohock,n., See Loch, a medicine. 
Loimic,a., Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders.
Loiter,v. i., To be slow in moving; to delay; to linger; to be dilatory; to spend time idly; to saunter; to lag behind.
Loligo,n., A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids, common on the coasts of America and Europe. They are much used for fish bait. 
Lolled,imp. & p. p., of Loll
Loller,n., One who lolls.
Lollop,v. i., To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll.
Lomata,pl. , of Loma
Loment,n., An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves, but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a single seed. 
London,n., The capital city of England.
Lonely,superl., Sequestered from company or neighbors; solitary; retired; as, a lonely situation; a lonely cell. 
Longed,imp. & p. p., of Long
Longan,n., A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by an evergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan
Longer,n., One who longs for anything.
Longly,adv., With longing desire.
Looing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Loo
Looked,imp. & p. p., of Look
Looker,n., One who looks.
Loomed,imp. & p. p., of Loom
Looped,imp. & p. p., of Loop
Looper,n., An instrument, as a bodkin, for forming a loop in yarn, a cord, etc. 
Loopie,a., Deceitful; cunning; sly.
Loosed,imp. & p. p., of Loose
Loosen,v. t., To make loose; to free from tightness, tension, firmness, or fixedness; to make less dense or compact; as, to loosen a string, or a knot; to loosen a rock in the earth. 
Looted,imp. & p. p., of Loot
Looter,n., A plunderer.
Loover,n., See Louver.
Lopped,imp. & p. p., of Lop
Loping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lope
Lopper,n., One who lops or cuts off.
Loquat,n., The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica
Lorate,a., Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate.
Lorcha,n., A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having the hull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of a Chinese junk. 
Lorded,imp. & p. p., of Lord
Lordly,superl., Suitable for a lord; of or pertaining to a lord; resembling a lord; hence, grand; noble; dignified; honorable. 
Loreal,a., Alt. of Loral
Lorica,n., A cuirass, originally of leather, afterward of plates of metal or horn sewed on linen or the like. 
Loring,n., Instructive discourse.
Loriot,n., The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole.
Lorrie,n., Alt. of Lorry
Lories,pl. , of Lory
Losing,imp. & p. p., of Lose
Lotted,imp. & p. p., of Lot
Lothly,a., Alt. of Lothsome
Lotion,n., A washing, especially of the skin for the purpose of rendering it fair. 
Lotong,n., An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis
Loture,n., See Lotion.
Loudly,adv., In a loud manner.
Lounge,a., To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; to pass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolent manner. 
Loutou,n., A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus
Louver,n., Alt. of Louvre
Louvre,n., A small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a
Lovage,n., An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale
Loving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Love
Lovely,superl., Having such an appearance as excites, or is fitted to excite, love; beautiful; charming; very pleasing in form, looks, tone, or manner. 
Lovery,n., See Louver.
Loving,a., Affectionate.
Lovyer,n., A lover.
Lowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Low
Lowery,a., Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather. 
Lowing,n., The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals.
Lowish,a., Somewhat low.
Lubber,n., A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown. 
Lubric,a., Alt. of Lubrical
Lucent,a., Shining; bright; resplendent.
Lucern,n., A sort of hunting dog; -- perhaps from Lucerne, in Switzerland. 
Lucule,n., A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surrounding surface.
Lucuma,n., An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and edible fruits.
Ludlow,, A subdivision of the British Upper Silurian lying below the Old Red Sandstone; -- so named from the Ludlow, in Western England. See the Chart of Geology. 
Luffed,imp. & p. p., of Luff
Luffer,n., See Louver.
Lugged,imp. & p. p., of Lug
Lugger,n., A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running bowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Lulled,imp. & p. p., of Lull
Luller,n., One who, or that which, lulls. 
Lumbar,a., Alt. of Lumbal
Lumbal,a., Of, pertaining to, or near, the loins; as, the lumbar arteries. 
Lumber,n., A pawnbroker's shop, or room for storing articles put in pawn; hence, a pledge, or pawn. 
Lumine,v. i., To illumine.
Lummox,n., A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler. 
Lumped,imp. & p. p., of Lump
Lumper,n., The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen.
Lunacy,n., Insanity or madness; properly, the kind of insanity which is broken by intervals of reason, -- formerly supposed to be influenced by the changes of the moon; any form of unsoundness of mind, except idiocy; mental derangement or alienation. 
Lunary,a., Lunar.
Lunate,a., Alt. of Lunated
Lunged,imp. & p. p., of Lunge
Lungie,n., A guillemot.
Lungis,n., A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow. 
Lunula,n., Same as Lunule.
Lunule,n., Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; a lunula, a lune. 
Lupine,n., A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus, the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times. The common species of the Eastern United States is L. perennis. There are many species in California. 
Lurdan,a., Stupid; blockish.
Luring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lure
Lurked,imp. & p. p., of Lurk
Lurker,n., One who lurks.
Lusern,n., A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier.
Lusory,a., Used in play; sportive; playful.
Lusted,imp. & p. p., of Lust
Luster,n., One who lusts.
Lustre,n., Brilliancy; splendor; brightness; glitter.
Luster,v. t., Alt. of Lustre
Lustre,v. t., To make lustrous.
Lustic,a., Lusty; vigorous.
Lustre,n., Same as Luster.
Lustra,pl. , of Lustrum
Luting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Lute
Luteic,a., Pertaining to, or derived from, weld (Reseda luteola
Lutein,n., A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted from the yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum. 
Luting,n., See Lute, a cement. 
Lutist,n., One who plays on a lute.
Lutose,a., Covered with clay; miry.
Luwack,n., See Paradoxure.
Luxate,a., Luxated.
Luxive,a., Given to luxury; voluptuous.
Luxury,n., A free indulgence in costly food, dress, furniture, or anything expensive which gratifies the appetites or tastes. 
Lyceum,n., A place of exercise with covered walks, in the suburbs of Athens, where Aristotle taught philosophy. 
Lychee,n., See Litchi.
Lycine,n., A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum
Lydian,a., Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to its inhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one of the ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft, pathetic, or voluptuous character. 
Lydine,n., A violet dye derived from aniline.
Lymail,n., See Limaille.
Lymphy,a., Containing, or like, lymph. 
Lynden,n., See Linden.
Lyraid,n., Same as Lyrid.
Lyrate,a., Alt. of Lyrated
Lyrism,n., The act of playing on a lyre or harp.
Lyrist,n., A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyrical poetry.
Lyttae,pl. , of Lytta
Maalin,n., The sparrow hawk.
Maasha,n., An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of a rupee. 
Mabble,v. t., To wrap up.
Mabolo,n., A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor
Macaco,n., Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur (Lemur macaco
Mackle,n., Same Macule.
Macled,a., Marked like macle (chiastolite
Macron,n., A short, straight, horizontal mark [-], placed over vowels to denote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, in dame; /, in s/am, etc. 
Mactra,n., Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and allied genera. Many species are known. Some of them are used as food, as Mactra stultorum, of Europe. See Surf clam, under Surf. 
Macula,n., A spot, as on the skin, or on the surface of the sun or of some other luminous orb. 
Macule,n., A spot.
Madded,imp. & p. p., of Mad
Madams,pl. , of Madam
Madame,n., My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality; now, in France, given to all married women. 
Madcap,a., Inclined to wild sports; delighting in rash, absurd, or dangerous amusements. 
Madden,v. t., To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violently with passion; to make very angry; to enrage.
Madder,n., A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum
Madefy,v. t., To make wet or moist.
Madmen,pl. , of Madman
Madman,n., A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person.
Madnep,n., The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium
Maenad,n., A Bacchante; a priestess or votary of Bacchus.
Maffle,v. i., To stammer.
Magged,a., Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace. 
Maggot,n., The footless larva of any fly. See Larval.
Maghet,n., A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds.
Magian,a., Of or pertaining to the Magi.
Magilp,n., Alt. of Magilph
Magnes,n., Magnet.
Magnet,n., The loadstone; a species of iron ore (the ferrosoferric or magnetic ore, Fe3O4
Magnum,n., A large wine bottle.
Magpie,n., Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and related genera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail. 
Maguey,n., The century plant, a species of Agave (A. Americana
Magyar,n., One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; a Hungarian. 
Maholi,n., A South African lemur (Galago maholi
Mahone,n., A large Turkish ship.
Mahori,n., One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands of Eastern Polynesia. Also used adjectively.
Mahout,n., The keeper and driver of an elephant.
Mahovo,n., A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroad car, by means of a heavy fly wheel. 
Maiden,n., An unmarried woman; a girl or woman who has not experienced sexual intercourse; a virgin; a maid.
Maid's,, The yellow bedstraw (Galium verum
Maiger,n., The meagre.
Maigre,a., Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day. 
Maihem,n., See Maim, and Mayhem. 
Maikel,n., A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied to the skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout. The tail is not bushy. 
Mailed,imp. & p. p., of Mail
Maimed,imp. & p. p., of Maim
Mainly,adv., Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree.
Mainor,n., A thing stolen found on the person of the thief.
Maioid,a., Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeae. 
Majoun,n., See Madjoun.
Making,p. pr. & vb. n., of Make
Malady,n., Any disease of the human body; a distemper, disorder, or indisposition, proceeding from impaired, defective, or morbid organic functions; especially, a lingering or deep-seated disorder. 
Malaga,n., A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence, Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines. 
Malate,n., A salt of malic acid.
Maleic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series, metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid. 
Maleyl,n., A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid.
Malgre,prep., See Mauger.
Malice,n., Enmity of heart; malevolence; ill will; a spirit delighting in harm or misfortune to another; a disposition to injure another; a malignant design of evil.
Malign,a., Having an evil disposition toward others; harboring violent enmity; malevolent; malicious; spiteful; -- opposed to benign.
Malkin,n., Originally, a kitchenmaid; a slattern. 
Malled,imp. & p. p., of Mall
Mallee,, The leipoa. See Leipoa.
Mallet,n., A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving a tool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a long handle, -- used in playing croquet. 
Mallei,pl. , of Malleus
Mallow,n., Alt. of Mallows
Malmag,n., The tarsius, or spectral lemur. 
Malted,imp. & p. p., of Malt
Maltha,n., A variety of bitumen, viscid and tenacious, like pitch, unctuous to the touch, and exhaling a bituminous odor. 
Maltin,n., Alt. of Maltine
Mammae,pl. , of Mamma
Mammal,n., One of the Mammalia.
Mammee,n., A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea (M. Americana
Mammer,v. i., To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully.
Mammet,n., An idol; a puppet; a doll.
Mammon,n., Riches; wealth; the god of riches; riches, personified. 
Mamzer,n., A person born of relations between whom marriage was forbidden by the Mosaic law; a bastard.
Manned,imp. & p. p., of Man
Manace,n. & v., Same as Menace.
Manage,n., The handling or government of anything, but esp. of a horse; management; administration. See Manege. 
Manche,n., A sleeve.
Manchu,a., Of or pertaining to Manchuria or its inhabitants.
Mancus,n., An old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and of variously estimated values. The silver mancus was equal to about one shilling of modern English money. 
Mander,v. t. & i., See Maunder.
Mandil,n., A loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries.
Manege,n., Art of horsemanship, or of training horses. 
Manful,a., Showing manliness, or manly spirit; hence, brave, courageous, resolute, noble. 
Mangan,n., See Mangonel.
Manger,n., A trough or open box in which fodder is placed for horses or cattle to eat.
Mangle,v. t., To cut or bruise with repeated blows or strokes, making a ragged or torn wound, or covering with wounds; to tear in cutting; to cut in a bungling manner; to lacerate; to mutilate. 
Mangue,n., The kusimanse.
Maniac,a., Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affected with mania; mad.
Manila,a., Alt. of Manilla
Manioc,n., The tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M. Aipi
Manito,n., Alt. of Manitu
Manitu,n., A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit, whether good or evil, or to any object of worship. 
Manner,n., Mode of action; way of performing or effecting anything; method; style; form; fashion.
Manred,n., Alt. of Manrent
Mantel,n., The finish around a fireplace, covering the chimney-breast in front and sometimes on both sides; especially, a shelf above the fireplace, and its supports. 
Mantic,a., Of or pertaining to divination, or to the condition of one inspired, or supposed to be inspired, by a deity; prophetic. 
Mantis,n., Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insects of the genus Mantis, and allied genera. They are remarkable for their slender grotesque forms, and for holding their stout anterior legs in a manner suggesting hands folded in prayer. The common American species is M. Carolina. 
Mantle,n., A loose garment to be worn over other garments; an enveloping robe; a cloak. Hence, figuratively, a covering or concealing envelope. 
Mantra,n., A prayer; an invocation; a religious formula; a charm.
Mantua,n., A superior kind of rich silk formerly exported from Mantua in Italy.
Manual,a., Of or pertaining to the hand; done or made by the hand; as, manual labor; the king's sign manual. 
Manure,v. t., To cultivate by manual labor; to till; hence, to develop by culture. 
Manway,n., A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through. 
Maoris,pl. , of Maori
Mapped,imp. & p. p., of Map
Mapach,n., The raccoon.
Marred,imp. & p. p., of Mar
Maraud,v. i., To rove in quest of plunder; to make an excursion for booty; to plunder.
Marble,n., A massive, compact limestone; a variety of calcite, capable of being polished and used for architectural and ornamental purposes. The color varies from white to black, being sometimes yellow, red, and green, and frequently beautifully veined or clouded. The name is also given to other rocks of like use and appearance, as serpentine or verd antique marble, and less properly to polished porphyry, granite, etc. 
Marbly,a., Containing, or resembling, marble. 
Macher,n., One who marches.
Marcid,a., Pining; lean; withered.
Marcor,n., A wasting away of flesh; decay.
Mareis,n., A Marsh.
Marena,n., A European whitefish of the genus Coregonus.
Margay,n., An American wild cat (Felis tigrina
Margin,n., A border; edge; brink; verge; as, the margin of a river or lake. 
Marian,a., Pertaining to the Virgin Mary, or sometimes to Mary, Queen of England, daughter of Henry VIII. 
Mariet,n., A kind of bellflower, Companula Trachelium, once called Viola Mariana; but it is not a violet. 
Marine,a., Of or pertaining to the sea; having to do with the ocean, or with navigation or naval affairs; nautical; as, marine productions or bodies; marine shells; a marine engine. 
Marish,n., Low, wet ground; a marsh; a fen; a bog; a moor. 
Marked,imp. & p. p., of Mark
Markee,n., See Marquee.
Marker,n., One who or that which marks.
Market,n., A meeting together of people, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of traffic (as in cattle, provisions, wares, etc.
Markis,n., A marquis.
Marled,imp. & p. p., of Marl
Marlin,n., The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa
Marmot,n., Any rodent of the genus Arctomys. The common European marmot (A. marmotta
Marone,n., See Maroon, the color. 
Maroon,n., In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a free negro, living in the mountains. 
Marque,n., A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary of a country, for the purpose of making reprisals. 
Marram,n., A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea
Marrer,n., One who mars or injures.
Marron,a., A large chestnut.
Marrot,n., The razor-billed auk. See Auk.
Marrow,n., The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla. In the larger cavities it is commonly very fatty, but in the smaller cavities it is much less fatty, and red or reddish in color. 
Marshy,a., Resembling a marsh; wet; boggy; fenny.
Martel,v. i., To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer. 
Marten,n., A bird. See Martin.
Martin,n., A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding.
Martyr,n., One who, by his death, bears witness to the truth of the gospel; one who is put to death for his religion; as, Stephen was the first Christian martyr. 
Marvel,n., That which causes wonder; a prodigy; a miracle.
Marver,n., A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass is rolled to give it shape. 
Mascle,n., A lozenge voided.
Mascot,n., Alt. of Mascotte
Mashed,imp. & p. p., of Mash
Masher,n., One who, or that which, mashes; also (Brewing
Masked,imp. & p. p., of Mask
Masker,n., One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at a masquerade.
Maslin,n., A mixture composed of different materials
Masora,n., A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures, composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in the eighth and ninth centuries. 
Masque,n., A mask; a masquerade.
Massed,imp. & p. p., of Mass
Masser,n., A priest who celebrates Mass.
Masted,imp. & p. p., of Mast
Mastax,n., The pharynx of a rotifer. It usually contains four horny pieces. The two central ones form the incus, against which the mallei, or lateral ones, work so as to crush the food. 
Masted,a., Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as, a three-masted schooner. 
Master,n., A vessel having (so many
Mastic,n., A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P. Lentiscus
Masula,, Same as Masoola boat.
Matted,imp. & p. p., of Mat
Mataco,n., The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus
Mating,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mate
Mather,n., See Madder.
Mathes,n., The mayweed. Cf. Maghet.
Matico,n., A Peruvian plant (Piper, / Artanthe, elongatum
Matrix,n., The womb.
Matron,n., A wife or a widow, especially, one who has borne children; a woman of staid or motherly manners. 
Matted,a., Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf or gilding. 
Matter,n., That of which anything is composed; constituent substance; material; the material or substantial part of anything; the constituent elements of conception; that into which a notion may be analyzed; the essence; the pith; the embodiment.
Mature,superl., Brought by natural process to completeness of growth and development; fitted by growth and development for any function, action, or state, appropriate to its kind; full-grown; ripe. 
Maudle,v. t., To throw onto confusion or disorder; to render maudlin.
Mauger,prep., Alt. of Maugre
Maugre,prep., In spite of; in opposition to; notwithstanding.
Maukin,n., See Malkin.
Mauled,imp. & p. p., of Maul
Maumet,n., See Mawmet.
Maunch,v. t., To munch.
Maundy,, The Thursday in Passion week, or next before Good Friday. 
Maungy,a., Mangy.
Mawkin,n., See Malkin, and Maukin. 
Mawmet,n., A puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the Middle Ages it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped images representing Mohammed. 
Maxima,pl. , of Maximum
Mayhap,adv., Perhaps; peradventure.
Mayhem,n., The maiming of a person by depriving him of the use of any of his members which are necessary for defense or protection. See Maim.
Maying,n., The celebrating of May Day.
Maypop,n., The edible fruit of a passion flower, especially that of the North American Passiflora incarnata, an oval yellowish berry as large as a small apple. 
Mazama,n., Alt. of Mazame
Mazame,n., A goatlike antelope (Haplocerus montanus
Mazard,n., A kind of small black cherry.
Mazing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Maze
Mazily,adv., In a mazy manner.
Meadow,n., A tract of low or level land producing grass which is mown for hay; any field on which grass is grown for hay.
Meager,a., Alt. of Meagre
Meagre,a., Destitue of, or having little, flesh; lean. 
Meager,v. t., Alt. of Meagre
Meagre,v. t., To make lean.
Meanly,adv., Moderately.
Measle,n., A leper.
Measly,a., Infected with measles.
Meatal,a., Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus.
Meated,a., Fed; fattened.
Meathe,n., A sweet liquor; mead.
Meatus,n. sing. & pl., A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus. See Illust. of Ear. 
Meazel,n., See 1st Measle.
Mebles,n. pl., See Moebles.
Mecate,n., A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc. 
Meddle,v. i., To mix; to mingle.
Mediae,pl. , of Media
Medial,a., Of or pertaining to a mean or average; mean; as, medial alligation. 
Median,a., Being in the middle; running through the middle; as, a median groove. 
Medics,n., Science of medicine.
Medina,, A subdivision of the Niagara period in the American upper Silurian, characterized by the formations known as the Oneida conglomerate, and the Medina sandstone. See the Chart of Geology. 
Medino,n., Same as Para.
Medium,n., That which lies in the middle, or between other things; intervening body or quantity. Hence, specifically: (a
Medius,n., The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that which corresponds to it. 
Medlar,n., A tree of the genus Mespilus (M. Germanica
Medley,n., A mixture; a mingled and confused mass of ingredients, usually inharmonious; a jumble; a hodgepodge; -- often used contemptuously. 
Medusa,n., The Gorgon; or one of the Gorgons whose hair was changed into serpents, after which all who looked upon her were turned into stone. 
Meeken,v. t., To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility.
Meekly,adv., In a meek manner.
Meeten,v. t., To render fit.
Meeter,n., One who meets.
Meetly,adv., Fitly; suitably; properly.
Megass,n., Alt. of Megasse
Megerg,n., One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one million ergs; -- called also megalerg. 
Megilp,n., Alt. of Megilph
Megohm,n., One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amounting to one million ohms. 
Megrim,n., A kind of sick or nevrous headache, usually periodical and confined to one side of the head. 
Melada,n., Alt. of Melado
Melado,n., A mixture of sugar and molasses; crude sugar as it comes from the pans without being drained.
Melain,n., The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish.
Melena,n., See Melaena.
Melene,n., An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series, obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called also melissene, and melissylene. 
Mellay,n., A melee; a conflict.
Mellic,a., See Mellitic.
Mellow,superl., Soft or tender by reason of ripeness; having a tender pulp; as, a mellow apple. 
Melody,n., A sweet or agreeable succession of sounds.
Melted,imp. & p. p., of Melt
Molten,p. p., of Melt
Melter,n., One who, or that which, melts. 
Melton,n., A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and without raised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp.
Member,v. t., To remember; to cause to remember; to mention.
Memnon,n., A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have the property of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise. 
Memoir,n., Alt. of Memoirs
Memory,n., The faculty of the mind by which it retains the knowledge of previous thoughts, impressions, or events. 
Menace,n., The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat or threatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come.
Menage,n., See Manage.
Menaia,pl. , of Menaion
Menald,a., Alt. of Menild
Menild,a., Covered with spots; speckled; variegated.
Mended,imp. & p. p., of Mend
Mender,n., One who mends or repairs.
Meinte,, of Menge
Menhir,n., A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial or monument. Many, of unknown date, are found in Brittany and throughout Northern Europe. 
Menial,n., Belonging to a retinue or train of servants; performing servile office; serving.
Mensal,a., Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensal conversation. 
Menses,n. pl., The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of blood or bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs. 
Mental,a., Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the mental region. 
Mentha,n., A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including the peppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usually arranged in dense axillary clusters. 
Mentor,n., A wise and faithful counselor or monitor.
Mentum,n., The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium.
Menuse,v. i., See Amenuse.
Mercat,n., Market; trade.
Mercer,n., Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; now restricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens. 
Merely,adv., Purely; unmixedly; absolutely.
Merged,imp. & p. p., of Merge
Merger,n., One who, or that which, merges. 
Meride,n., A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher aggregates, termed zoides. 
Merils,n., A boy's play, called also fivepenny morris. See Morris. 
Merino,a., Of or pertaining to a variety of sheep with very fine wool, originally bred in Spain. 
Merkin,n., Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon. 
Merlin,n., A small European falcon (Falco lithofalco, or F. aesalon
Merlon,n., One of the solid parts of a battlemented parapet; a battlement. See Illust. of Battlement.
Mermen,pl. , of Merman
Merman,n., The male corresponding to mermaid; a sea man, or man fish. 
Mescal,n., A distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave. See Agave.
Meshed,imp. & p. p., of Mesh
Mesiad,adv., Toward, or on the side toward, the mesial plane; mesially; -- opposed to laterad. 
Mesial,a., Middle; median; in, or in the region of, the mesial plane; internal; -- opposed to lateral. 
Meslin,n., See Maslin.
Mesole,n., Same as Thomsonite.
Messed,imp. & p. p., of Mess
Messet,n., A dog.
Mestee,n., The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called in the West Indies.
Mester,n., See Mister, a trade. 
Metage,v., Measurement, especially of coal. 
Meting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mete
Metely,a., According to measure or proportion; proportionable; proportionate.
Meteor,n., Any phenomenon or appearance in the atmosphere, as clouds, rain, hail, snow, etc. 
Methal,n., A white waxy substance, found in small quantities in spermaceti as an ethereal salt of several fatty acids, and regarded as an alcohol of the methane series. 
Method,n., An orderly procedure or process; regular manner of doing anything; hence, manner; way; mode; as, a method of teaching languages; a method of improving the mind. 
Methol,n., The technical name of methyl alcohol or wood spirit; also, by extension, the class name of any of the series of alcohols of the methane series of which methol proper is the type. See Methyl alcohol, under Methyl. 
Methyl,n., A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded as an essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part of many derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine, etc. 
Metive,n. f., See Metis.
Metope,n., The space between two triglyphs of the Doric frieze, which, among the ancients, was often adorned with carved work. See Illust. of Entablature. 
Metric,a., Relating to measurement; involving, or proceeding by, measurement. 
Mettle,n., Substance or quality of temperament; spirit, esp. as regards honor, courage, fortitude, ardor, etc.; disposition; -- usually in a good sense. 
Mewing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mew
Mewled,imp. & p. p., of Mewl
Mewler,n., One that mewls.
Mezcal,n., Same as Mescal.
Miamis,n. pl., A tribe of Indians that formerly occupied the country between the Wabash and Maumee rivers.
Miasma,n., Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air made noxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia; malaria.
Micher,n., One who skulks, or keeps out of sight; hence, a truant; an idler; a thief, etc. 
Mickle,a., Much; great.
Micron,n., A measure of length; the thousandth part of one millimeter; the millionth part of a meter.
Midday,a., The middle part of the day; noon.
Midden,n., A dunghill.
Middle,a., Equally distant from the extreme either of a number of things or of one thing; mean; medial; as, the middle house in a row; a middle rank or station in life; flowers of middle summer; men of middle age. 
Midget,n., A minute bloodsucking fly.
Midgut,n., The middle part of the alimentary canal from the stomach, or entrance of the bile duct, to, or including, the large intestine. 
Midrib,n., A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to the apex of the lamina of a leaf. 
Midway,n., The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course.
Mighty,n., Possessing might; having great power or authority.
Mignon,a., See 3d Minion.
Mikado,n., The popular designation of the hereditary sovereign of Japan.
Milage,n., Same as Mileage.
Milden,v. t., To make mild, or milder. 
Mildew,n., A growth of minute powdery or webby fungi, whitish or of different colors, found on various diseased or decaying substances. 
Mildly,adv., In a mild manner.
Milice,n., Militia.
Milked,imp. & p. p., of Milk
Milken,a., Consisting of milk.
Milker,n., One who milks; also, a mechanical apparatus for milking cows. 
Milled,imp. & p. p., of Mill
Miller,n., One who keeps or attends a flour mill or gristmill.
Millet,n., The name of several cereal and forage grasses which bear an abundance of small roundish grains. The common millets of Germany and Southern Europe are Panicum miliaceum, and Setaria Italica. 
Milter,n., A male fish.
Milvus,n., A genus of raptorial birds, including the European kite. 
Mimosa,n., A genus of leguminous plants, containing many species, and including the sensitive plants (Mimosa sensitiva, and M. pudica
Minaul,n., Same as Manul.
Minced,imp. & p. p., of Mince
Mincer,n., One who minces.
Minded,imp. & p. p., of Mind
Minder,n., One who minds, tends, or watches something, as a child, a machine, or cattle; as, a minder of a loom. 
Mining,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mine
Mingle,v. t., To mix; intermix; to combine or join, as an individual or part, with other parts, but commonly so as to be distinguishable in the product; to confuse; to confound. 
Minify,v. t., To make small, or smaller; to diminish the apparent dimensions of; to lessen. 
Minima,pl. , of Minimum
Minimi,pl. , of Minimus
Mining,v. i., The act or business of making mines or of working them.
Minion,n., Minimum.
Minish,a., To diminish; to lessen.
Minium,n., A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead, Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle and continued heat in the air. It is used as a cement, as a paint, and in the manufacture of flint glass. Called also red lead. 
Minnow,n., A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus laevis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus
Minted,imp. & p. p., of Mint
Minter,n., One who mints.
Minuet,n., A slow graceful dance consisting of a coupee, a high step, and a balance. 
Minute,n., The sixtieth part of an hour; sixty seconds. (Abbrev. m.; as, 4 h. 30 m.
Mirage,n., An optical effect, sometimes seen on the ocean, but more frequently in deserts, due to total reflection of light at the surface common to two strata of air differently heated. The reflected image is seen, commonly in an inverted position, while the real object may or may not be in sight. When the surface is horizontal, and below the eye, the appearance is that of a sheet of water in which the object is seen reflected; when the reflecting surface is above the eye, the image is seen projected against the sky. The fata Morgana and looming are species of mirage. 
Miring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mire
Mirror,n., A looking-glass or a speculum; any glass or polished substance that forms images by the reflection of rays of light.
Miscue,n., A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from the ball struck without impelling it as desired. 
Misdid,imp., of Misdo
Misery,n., Great unhappiness; extreme pain of body or mind; wretchedness; distress; woe.
Misfit,n., The act or the state of fitting badly; as, a misfit in making a coat; a ludicrous misfit. 
Misget,v. t., To get wrongfully.
Misgie,v. t., See Misgye.
Misgye,v. t., To misguide.
Mishap,n., Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance.
Mishna,n., A collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations of Scripture, forming the text of the Talmud. 
Misken,v. t., Not to know.
Miskin,n., A little bagpipe.
Mislay,v. t., To lay in a wrong place; to ascribe to a wrong source.
Misled,imp. & p. p., of Misle
Mislin,n. & a., See Maslin.
Mispay,v. t., To dissatisfy.
Misses,pl. , of Miss
Missed,imp. & p. p., of Miss
Missae,pl. , of Missa
Missal,n., The book containing the service of the Mass for the entire year; a Mass book.
Missay,v. t., To say wrongly.
Missel,n., Mistletoe.
Misset,v. t., To set pr place wrongly.
Missis,n., A mistress; a wife; -- so used by the illiterate.
Missit,v. t., To sit badly or imperfectly upon; to misbecome.
Misted,imp. & p. p., of Mist
Mister,n., A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth. It is usually written in the abbreviated form Mr.
Mistic,n., Alt. of Mistico
Mistle,v. i., To fall in very fine drops, as rain. 
Misuse,v. t., To treat or use improperly; to use to a bad purpose; to misapply; as, to misuse one's talents. 
Misway,n., A wrong way.
Miswed,v. t., To wed improperly.
Mitred,, of Mitre
Mithic,a., See Mythic.
Miting,n., A little one; -- used as a term of endearment.
Mitome,n., The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell.
Mitral,a., Pertaining to a miter; resembling a miter; as, the mitral valve between the left auricle and left ventricle of the heart. 
Mitten,n., A covering for the hand, worn to defend it from cold or injury. It differs from a glove in not having a separate sheath for each finger. 
Mixing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mix
Mixtly,adv., With mixture; in a mixed manner; mixedly.
Mizzen,a., Hindmost; nearest the stern; as, the mizzen shrouds, sails, etc. 
Mizzle,v. i., To rain in very fine drops.
Moaned,imp. & p. p., of Moan
Mobbed,imp. & p. p., of Mob
Mobcap,n., A plain cap or headdress for women or girls; especially, one tying under the chin by a very broad band, generally of the same material as the cap itself. 
Mobile,a., Capable of being moved; not fixed in place or condition; movable.
Mobles,n. pl., See Moebles.
Mochel,a. & adv., Much.
Mocked,imp. & p. p., of Mock
Mocker,n., One who, or that which, mocks; a scorner; a scoffer; a derider. 
Mockle,a., See Mickle.
Modena,n., A certain crimsonlike color.
Modern,a., Of or pertaining to the present time, or time not long past; late; not ancient or remote in past time; of recent period; as, modern days, ages, or time; modern authors; modern fashions; modern taste; modern practice. 
Modest,a., Restraining within due limits of propriety; not forward, bold, boastful, or presumptious; rather retiring than pushing one's self forward; not obstructive; as, a modest youth; a modest man. 
Modify,v. t., To change somewhat the form or qualities of; to alter somewhat; as, to modify a contrivance adapted to some mechanical purpose; to modify the terms of a contract. 
Modish,a., According to the mode, or customary manner; conformed to the fashion; fashionable; hence, conventional; as, a modish dress; a modish feast. 
Modist,n., One who follows the fashion.
Modius,n., A dry measure, containing about a peck. 
Modocs,n. pl., A tribe of warlike Indians formerly inhabiting Northern California. They are nearly extinct.
Module,n., A model or measure.
Moduli,pl. , of Modulus
Moggan,n., A closely fitting knit sleeve; also, a legging of knitted material. 
Mohair,n., The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor; also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of such fabric. 
Mohawk,n., One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations. They formerly inhabited the valley of the Mohawk River.
Mohock,n., See Mohawk.
Moholi,n., See Maholi.
Moider,v. i., To toil.
Moiety,a., One of two equal parts; a half; as, a moiety of an estate, of goods, or of profits; the moiety of a jury, or of a nation. 
Moiled,imp. & p. p., of Moil
Moisty,a., Moist.
Molary,a., Same as 2d Molar.
Molded,imp. & p. p., of Mould
Molder,n., Alt. of Moulder
Mouldy,superl., Overgrown with, or containing, mold; as, moldy cheese or bread. 
Moling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mole
Molech,n., The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Moloch. 
Molest,v. t., To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; to vex.
Moline,n., The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by resting on the spindle; a millrind.
Mollah,n., One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man. 
Moloch,n., The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Molech. Also applied figuratively. 
Molted,imp. & p. p., of Moult
Molten,a., Melted; being in a state of fusion, esp. when the liquid state is produced by a high degree of heat; as, molten iron. 
Moment,n., A minute portion of time; a point of time; an instant; as, at thet very moment. 
Momier,n., A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland, France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19th century. 
Monday,n., The second day of the week; the day following Sunday.
Monera,n. pl., The lowest division of rhizopods, including those which resemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus. 
Monest,v. t., To warn; to admonish; to advise.
Moneth,n., A month.
Moneys,pl. , of Money
Monger,n., A trader; a dealer; -- now used chiefly in composition; as, fishmonger, ironmonger, newsmonger. 
Mongol,n., One of the Mongols.
Monied,a., See Moneyed.
Monish,v. t., To admonish; to warn. See Admonish.
Monism,n., That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism.
Monist,n., A believer in monism.
Monkey,n., In the most general sense, any one of the Quadrumana, including apes, baboons, and lemurs. 
Monkly,a., Like, or suitable to, a monk. 
Monk's,, An extra middle seam made at the junction of two breadths of canvas, ordinarily joined by only two rows of stitches. 
Monody,n., A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a single mourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice. 
Monome,n., A monomial.
Monroe,, See under Doctrine.
Montem,n., A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school, England, of going every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support at the university the senior scholar of the school. 
Monton,n., A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation.
Mooing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Moo
Mooder,n., Mother.
Moodir,n., The governor of a province in Egypt, etc. 
Moolah,n., Alt. of Moollah
Mooned,imp. & p. p., of Moon
Mooner,n., One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck. 
Moonet,n., A little moon.
Moonie,n., The European goldcrest.
Moored,imp. & p. p., of Moor
Mooruk,n., A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti
Mooted,imp. & p. p., of Moot
Mooter,n., A disputer of a mooted case.
Mopped,imp. & p. p., of Mop
Moping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mope
Mopish,a., Dull; spiritless; dejected.
Moplah,n., One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar.
Moppet,n., A rag baby; a puppet made of cloth; hence, also, in fondness, a little girl, or a woman. 
Mopsey,n., Alt. of Mopsy
Morale,a., The moral condition, or the condition in other respects, so far as it is affected by, or dependent upon, moral considerations, such as zeal, spirit, hope, and confidence; mental state, as of a body of men, an army, and the like. 
Morass,n., A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen. 
Morate,n., A salt of moric acid.
Morbid,a., Not sound and healthful; induced by a diseased or abnormal condition; diseased; sickly; as, morbid humors; a morbid constitution; a morbid state of the juices of a plant. 
Moreen,n., A thick woolen fabric, watered or with embossed figures; -- used in upholstery, for curtains, etc. 
Moresk,a. & n., Moresque.
Morgay,n., The European small-spotted dogfish, or houndfish. See the Note under Houndfish. 
Morgue,n., A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed, that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; a deadhouse. 
Morian,n., A Moor.
Morice,n., See Morisco.
Morion,n., A kind of open helmet, without visor or beaver, and somewhat resembling a hat. 
Morisk,n., Same as Morisco.
Morkin,n., A beast that has died of disease or by mischance.
Mormal,n., A bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer.
Mormon,n., A genus of sea birds, having a large, thick bill; the puffin. 
Morone,n., Maroon; the color of an unripe black mulberry.
Morose,a., Of a sour temper; sullen and austere; ill-humored; severe.
Morpho,n., Any one of numerous species of large, handsome, tropical American butterflies, of the genus Morpho. They are noted for the very brilliant metallic luster and bright colors (often blue
Morris,n., A Moorish dance, usually performed by a single dancer, who accompanies the dance with castanets. 
Morrot,n., See Marrot.
Morrow,n., Morning.
Morsel,n., A little bite or bit of food.
Mortal,a., Subject to death; destined to die; as, man is mortal. 
Mortar,n., A strong vessel, commonly in form of an inverted bell, in which substances are pounded or rubbed with a pestle. 
Morula,n., The sphere or globular mass of cells (blastomeres
Mosaic,n., A surface decoration made by inlaying in patterns small pieces of variously colored glass, stone, or other material; -- called also mosaic work. 
Moslem,pl. , of Moslem
Mosque,n., A Mohammedan church or place of religious worship.
Mossed,imp. & p. p., of Moss
Mostic,n., Alt. of Mostick
Mostly,adv., For the greatest part; for the most part; chiefly; in the main.
Mostra,n., See Direct, n. 
Mothen,a., Full of moths.
Mother,n., A female parent; especially, one of the human race; a woman who has borne a child. 
Motile,a., Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, the motile spores of certain seaweeds. 
Motion,n., The act, process, or state of changing place or position; movement; the passing of a body from one place or position to another, whether voluntary or involuntary; -- opposed to rest. 
Motive,n., That which moves; a mover.
Motivo,n., See Motive, n., 3, 4. 
Motley,a., Variegated in color; consisting of different colors; dappled; party-colored; as, a motley coat. 
Motmot,n., Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak. In most of the species the two long middle tail feathers are racket-shaped at the tip, when mature. The bird itself is said by some writers to trim them into this shape. They feed on insects, reptiles, and fruit, and are found from Mexico to Brazil. The name is derived from its note. 
Motory,n., Alt. of Motorial
Mottle,v. t., To mark with spots of different color, or shades of color, as if stained; to spot; to maculate. 
Mought,imp., Might.
Mouldy,, See Mold, Molder, Moldy, etc. 
Mounch,v. t., To munch.
Mounty,v., The rise of a hawk after prey.
Mourne,n., The armed or feruled end of a staff; in a sheephook, the end of the staff to which the hook is attached. 
Moused,imp. & p. p., of Mouse
Mouser,n., A cat that catches mice.
Mousie,n., Diminutive for Mouse.
Mousle,v. t., To sport with roughly; to rumple.
Moutan,n., The Chinese tree peony (Paeonia Mountan
Mouths,pl. , of Mouth
Moving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Move
Movent,a., Moving.
Moving,a., Changing place or posture; causing motion or action; as, a moving car, or power. 
Mowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Mow
Mowyer,n., A mower.
Mucate,n., A salt of mucic acid.
Muchel,a., Much.
Mucker,n., A term of reproach for a low or vulgar labor person.
Muckle,a., Much.
Mucksy,a., Somewhat mucky; soft, sticky, and dirty; muxy. 
Mucoid,a., Resembling mucus.
Mucous,a., Of, pertaining to, or resembling, mucus; slimy, ropy, or stringy, and lubricous; as, a mucous substance. 
Muddle,v. t., To make turbid, or muddy, as water. 
Muffed,imp. & p. p., of Muff
Muffin,n., A light, spongy, cylindrical cake, used for breakfast and tea. 
Muffle,n., The bare end of the nose between the nostrils; -- used esp. of ruminants.
Muflon,n., See Mouflon.
Muftis,pl. , of Mufti
Mugget,n., The small entrails of a calf or a hog.
Mulada,n., A moor.
Mulier,n., A woman.
Mulish,a., Like a mule; sullen; stubborn.
Mulled,imp. & p. p., of Mull
Mullah,n., See Mollah.
Mullar,n., A die, cut in intaglio, for stamping an ornament in relief, as upon metal. 
Mullen,n., See Mullein.
Muller,n., One who, or that which, mulls. 
Mullet,n., Any one of numerous fishes of the genus Mugil; -- called also gray mullets. They are found on the coasts of both continents, and are highly esteemed as food. Among the most valuable species are Mugil capito of Europe, and M. cephalus which occurs both on the European and American coasts. 
Mulley,n., Alt. of Moolley
Mulmul,n., A fine, soft muslin; mull. 
Multum,n., An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers in order to economize malt and hops. 
Mumble,v., To speak with the lips partly closed, so as to render the sounds inarticulate and imperfect; to utter words in a grumbling indistinct manner, indicating discontent or displeasure; to mutter. 
Mummed,imp. & p. p., of Mumm
Mummer,n., One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; a buffon. 
Mumped,imp. & p. p., of Mump
Mumper,n., A beggar; a begging impostor.
Mundic,n., Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornish miners. 
Mundil,n., A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silver embroidery.
Munify,v. t. & i., To prepare for defense; to fortify.
Munite,v. t., To fortify; to strengthen.
Munity,n., Freedom; security; immunity.
Muntin,n., Alt. of Munting
Murage,n., A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of a fortified town.
Murder,n., The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense or aforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide. 
Muride,n., Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from sea water.
Murine,a., Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridae
Murmur,v. i., A low, confused, and indistinct sound, like that of running water. 
Murphy,n., A potato.
Murrey,n., A dark red color.
Musang,n., A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus
Musard,v. i., A dreamer; an absent-minded person.
Muscae,pl. , of Musca
Muscat,n., A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes, differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky flavor. The muscat of Alexandria is a large oval grape of a pale amber color. 
Muscid,n., Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidae. 
Muscle,n., An organ which, by its contraction, produces motion. 
Musing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Muse
Museum,n., A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities, or of works of art. 
Muskat,n., See Muscat.
Musket,n., The male of the sparrow hawk.
Muslim,n., See Moslem.
Muslin,n., A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed. The name is also applied to coarser and heavier cotton goods; as, shirting and sheeting muslins. 
Musmon,n., See Mouflon.
Musrol,n., The nose band of a horse's bridle.
Mussed,imp. & p. p., of Muss
Mussel,n., Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Mytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidae. The common mussel (Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus
Mustac,n., A small tufted monkey.
Mustee,n., See Mestee.
Muster,v. t., Something shown for imitation; a pattern.
Mutage,n., A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes.
Mutely,adv., Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently.
Mutine,n., A mutineer.
Muting,n., Dung of birds.
Mutiny,n., Insurrection against constituted authority, particularly military or naval authority; concerted revolt against the rules of discipline or the lawful commands of a superior officer; hence, generally, forcible resistance to rightful authority; insubordination. 
Mutism,n., The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or without speech. 
Mutter,v. i., To utter words indistinctly or with a low voice and lips partly closed; esp., to utter indistinct complaints or angry expressions; to grumble; to growl. 
Mutton,n., A sheep.
Mutual,a., Reciprocally acting or related; reciprocally receiving and giving; reciprocally given and received; reciprocal; interchanged; as, a mutual love, advantage, assistance, aversion, etc. 
Mutule,n., A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice, in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian and Composite orders. See Illust. of Gutta. 
Muzzle,v. i., The projecting mouth and nose of a quadruped, as of a horse; a snout. 
Myaria,n. pl., A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya
Mycose,n., A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained from certain lichens and fungi. Called also trehalose. 
Mydaus,n., The teledu.
Myelin,n., A soft white substance constituting the medullary sheats of nerve fibers, and composed mainly of cholesterin, lecithin, cerebrin, albumin, and some fat. 
Myelon,n., The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.
Mygale,n., A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and only four spinnerets. They do not spin webs, but usually construct tubes in the earth, which are often furnished with a trapdoor. The South American bird spider (Mygale avicularia
Myolin,n., The essential material of muscle fibers.
Myopia,n., Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye in which the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before they reach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image; while the rays from very near objects are normally converged so as to produce a distinct image. It is corrected by the use of a concave lens. 
Myopic,a., Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia; nearsighted. 
Myosin,n., An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in the process of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clot formed in the coagulation of muscle plasma. See Muscle plasma, under Plasma. 
Myosis,n., Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye.
Myotic,a., Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, as opium, calabar bean, etc. 
Myrcia,n., A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearly related to the true myrtles (Myrtus
Myriad,n., The number of ten thousand; ten thousand persons or things.
Myrica,n., A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually with aromatic foliage. It includes the bayberry or wax myrtle, the sweet gale, and the North American sweet fern, so called. 
Myrtle,n., A species of the genus Myrtus, especially Myrtus communis. The common myrtle has a shrubby, upright stem, eight or ten feet high. Its branches form a close, full head, thickly covered with ovate or lanceolate evergreen leaves. It has solitary axillary white or rosy flowers, followed by black several-seeded berries. The ancients considered it sacred to Venus. The flowers, leaves, and berries are used variously in perfumery and as a condiment, and the beautifully mottled wood is used in turning. 
Myself,pron., I or me in person; -- used for emphasis, my own self or person; as I myself will do it; I have done it myself; -- used also instead of me, as the object of the first person of a reflexive verb, without emphasis; as, I will defend myself. 
Mystic,a., Alt. of Mystical
Mythic,a., Alt. of Mythical
Myxine,n., A genus of marsipobranchs, including the hagfish. See Hag, 4. 
Myxoma,n., A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found in the umbilical cord.
Nabbed,imp. & p. p., of Nab
Nacker,n., See Nacre.
Nadder,n., An adder.
Naenia,n., See Nenia.
Nagged,imp. & p. p., of Nag
Naiant,a., See Natant.
Nailed,imp. & p. p., of Nail
Nailer,n., One whose occupation is to make nails; a nail maker.
Naming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Name
Namely,adv., By name; by particular mention; specifically; especially; expressly.
Nandou,n., Alt. of Nandu
Nanpie,n., The magpie.
Napped,imp. & p. p., of Nap
Napery,n., Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general. 
Naphew,n., See Navew.
Napkin,n., A little towel, or small cloth, esp. one for wiping the fingers and mouth at table. 
Naples,, See under Yellow.
Nardoo,n., An Australian name for Marsilea Drummondii, a four-leaved cryptogamous plant, sometimes used for food. 
Narica,n., The brown coati. See Coati.
Narine,a., Of or belonging to the nostrils.
Narrow,superl., Of little breadth; not wide or broad; having little distance from side to side; as, a narrow board; a narrow street; a narrow hem. 
Narwal,n., See Narwhal.
Nascal,n., A kind of pessary of medicated wool or cotton, formerly used. 
Nasion,n., The middle point of the nasofrontal suture.
Nassas,pl. , of Nassa
NassAe,pl. , of Nassa
Nasute,a., Having a nice sense of smell.
Natals,n. pl., One's birth, or the circumstances attending it. 
Natant,a., Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed, as those of many aquatic plants. 
Natica,n., Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging to Natica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidae.
Nation,n., A part, or division, of the people of the earth, distinguished from the rest by common descent, language, or institutions; a race; a stock. 
Native,a., Arising by birth; having an origin; born.
Natron,n., Native sodium carbonate.
Natter,v. i., To find fault; to be peevish.
Nature,n., The existing system of things; the world of matter, or of matter and mind; the creation; the universe. 
Naught,adv., Nothing.
Nausea,n., Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomach accompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of the stomach; loathing. 
Nautch,n., An entertainment consisting chiefly of dancing by professional dancing (or Nautch
Nautic,a., Nautical.
Navals,n.pl., Naval affairs.
Navies,pl. , of Navvy
Nayaur,n., A specied of wild sheep (Ovis Hodgsonii
Neaped,a., Left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it will not float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped. 
Neared,imp. & p. p., of Near
Nearly,adv., In a near manner; not remotely; closely; intimately; almost.
'Neath,prep. & adv., An abbreviation of Beneath.
Neatly,adv., In a neat manner; tidily; tastefully.
Nebula,n., A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situated beyond the solar system among the stars. True nebulae are gaseous; but very distant star clusters often appear like them in the telescope. 
Nebule,n., A little cloud; a cloud.
Nebuly,a., Composed of successive short curves supposed to resemble a cloud; -- said of a heraldic line by which an ordinary or subordinary may be bounded.
Necked,imp. & p. p., of Neck
Neckar,, See Nicker nut.
Necked,a., Having (such
Nectar,n., The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food
Nedder,n., An adder.
Needed,imp. & p. p., of Need
Needer,n., One who needs anything.
Needle,n., A small instrument of steel, sharply pointed at one end, with an eye to receive a thread, -- used in sewing. 
Needly,a., Like a needle or needles; as, a needly horn; a needly beard. 
Neesed,imp. & p. p., of Neese
Nefand,a., Alt. of Nefandous
Nefast,a., Wicked.
Negoce,n., Business; occupation.
Nemean,a., Of or pertaining to Nemea, in Argolis, where the ancient Greeks celebrated games, and Hercules killed a lion. 
Nempne,v., To name or call.
Neogen,n., An alloy resembling silver, and consisting chiefly of copper, zinc, and nickel, with small proportions of tin, aluminium, and bismuth. 
Nepeta,n., A genus of labiate plants, including the catnip and ground ivy. 
Nephew,n., A grandson or grandchild, or remoter lineal descendant. 
Nereid,n., A sea nymph, one of the daughters of Nereus, who were attendants upon Neptune, and were represented as riding on sea horses, sometimes with the human form entire, and sometimes with the tail of a fish. 
Nereis,n., A Nereid. See Nereid.
Nerita,n., A genus of marine gastropods, mostly natives of warm climates. 
Nerite,n., Any mollusk of the genus Nerita.
Neroli,n., An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers of the orange. It has a strong odor, and is used in perfumery, etc. 
Nerved,imp. & p. p., of Nerve
Nestle,v. i., To make and occupy a nest; to nest.
Nestor,n., A genus of parrots with gray heads. of New Zeland and papua, allied to the cockatoos. See Kaka. 
Netted,imp. & p. p., of Net
Nether,a., Situated down or below; lying beneath, or in the lower part; having a lower position; belonging to the region below; lower; under; -- opposed to upper. 
Netify,v. t., To render neat; to clean; to put in order.
Nettle,n., A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairs containing a poison that produces a stinging sensation. Urtica gracitis is common in the Northern, and U. chamaedryoides in the Southern, United States. the common European species, U. urens and U. dioica, are also found in the Eastern united States. U. pilulifera is the Roman nettle of England. 
Neurad,adv., Toward the neural side; -- opposed to haemad.
Neural,a., relating to the nerves or nervous system; taining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the neural, or cerebro-spinal, axis; -- opposed to hemal. As applied to vertebrates, neural is the same as dorsal; as applied to invertebrates it is usually the same as ventral. Cf. Hemal. 
Neuron,n., The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; myelencephalon.
Neuter,a., Neither the one thing nor the other; on neither side; impartial; neutral.
Newing,v. t., Yeast; barm.
Newish,a., Somewhat new; nearly new.
Nebbed,imp. & p. p., of Nib
Nibbed,a., Having a nib or point.
Nibble,v. t., To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; to eat slowly or in small bits.
Nicely,adv., In a nice manner.
Nicene,a., Of or pertaining to Nice, a town of Asia Minor, or to the ecumenial council held there A. D. 325. 
Nicery,n., Nicety.
Nicety,n., The quality or state of being nice (in any of the senses of that word.
Niched,a., Placed in a niche.
Nicked,imp. & p. p., of Nick
Nickar,, Alt. of Nickar tree
Nickel,n., A bright silver-white metallic element. It is of the iron group, and is hard, malleable, and ductile. It occurs combined with sulphur in millerite, with arsenic in the mineral niccolite, and with arsenic and sulphur in nickel glance. Symbol Ni. Atomic weight 58.6. 
Nicker,v. t., One of the night brawlers of London formerly noted for breaking windows with half-pence.
Nickle,n., The European woodpecker, or yaffle; -- called also nicker pecker. 
Nidary,n., A collection of nests.
Nidget,n., A fool; an idiot, a coward. 
Niding,n., A coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium.
Niello,n., A metallic alloy of a deep black color.
nigged,n., Hammer-dressed; -- said of building stone.
Nigger,n., A negro; -- in vulgar derision or depreciation.
Niggle,v. t., To trifle with; to deceive; to mock.
Nighly,adv., In a near relation in place, time, degree, etc.; within a little; almost. 
Nilgau,n., see Nylghau.
Nilled,imp. & p. p., of Nill
Nimmed,, of Nim
Nimble,superl., Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity; lively; swift.
Nimbly,adv., In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion. 
Nimbus,n., A circle, or disk, or any indication of radiant light around the heads of divinities, saints, and sovereigns, upon medals, pictures, etc.; a halo. See Aureola, and Glory, n., 5. 
Nimmer,n., A thief.
Ninety,a., Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men. 
Niobic,a., Same as Columbic.
Nipped,imp. & p. p., of Nip
Nipper,n., One who, or that which, nips. 
Nipple,n., The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the breast or mamma; the mammilla; a teat; a pap.
Nyseys,pl. , of Nisey
Nitric,a., Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrogen; specifically, designating any one of those compounds in which, as contrasted with nitrous compounds, the element has a higher valence; as, nitric oxide; nitric acid. 
Nitrol,n., Any one of a series of hydrocarbons containing the nitro and the nitroso or isonitroso group united to the same carbon atom.
Nitrum,n., Niter.
Nitryl,n., A name sometimes given to the nitro group or radical.
Nitter,n., The horselouse; an insect that deposits nits on horses.
Nivose,n., The fourth month of the French republican calendar [1792-1806]. It commenced December 21, and ended January 19. See VendEmiaire. 
Nobley,n., The body of nobles; the nobility.
Nobody,n., No person; no one; not anybody.
Nocake,n., Indian corn parched, and beaten to powder, -- used for food by the Northern American Indians. 
Nocent,a., Doing hurt, or having a tendency to hurt; hurtful; mischievous; noxious; as, nocent qualities. 
Nocive,a., Hurtful; injurious.
Nodded,imp. & p. p., of Nod
Nodder,n., One who nods; a drowsy person.
Noddle,n., The head; -- used jocosely or contemptuously.
Nodose,a., Knotty; having numerous or conspicuous nodes.
Nodous,a., Nodose; knotty; knotted.
Nodule,n., A rounded mass or irregular shape; a little knot or lump.
Noetic,a., Alt. of Noetical
Noggen,a., Made of hemp; hence, hard; rough; harsh. 
Noggin,n., A small mug or cup.
Noious,a., Annoying; troublesome.
Noised,imp. & p. p., of Noise
Nomade,n., See Nomad, n. 
Nomial,n., A name or term.
Nonage,n., The ninth part of movable goods, formerly payable to the clergy on the death of persons in their parishes. 
Nonane,n., One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffin series; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in the molecule. Normal nonane is a colorless volatile liquid, an ingredient of ordinary kerosene. 
Nonett,n., The titmouse.
Nonius,n., A vernier.
Nonoic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, nonane; as, nonoic acid, which is also called pelargonic acid. Cf. Pelargonic. 
Nonone,n., Any one of several metameric unsaturated hydrocarbons (C9H14
Noodle,n., A simpleton; a blockhead; a stupid person; a ninny.
Noosed,imp. & p. p., of Noose
Norian,a., Pertaining to the upper portion of the Laurentian rocks.
Norice,n., Nurse.
Norite,n., A granular crystalline rock consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar (as labradorite
Norium,n., A supposed metal alleged to have been discovered in zircon.
Normal,a., According to an established norm, rule, or principle; conformed to a type, standard, or regular form; performing the proper functions; not abnormal; regular; natural; analogical. 
Norman,n., A wooden bar, or iron pin. 
Norroy,n., The most northern of the English Kings-at-arms. See King-at-arms, under King. 
Nosing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Nose
Nostoc,n., A genus of algae. The plants are composed of moniliform cells imbedded in a gelatinous substance.
Notary,n., One who records in shorthand what is said or done; as, the notary of an ecclesiastical body. 
Notate,a., Marked with spots or lines, which are often colored. 
Noting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Note
Nother,conj., Neither; nor.
Notice,n., The act of noting, remarking, or observing; observation by the senses or intellect; cognizance; note. 
Notify,v. t., To make known; to declare; to publish; as, to notify a fact to a person. 
Notion,, Mental apprehension of whatever may be known or imagined; an idea; a conception; more properly, a general or universal conception, as distinguishable or definable by marks or notae. 
Notist,n., An annotator.
Nougat,n., A cake, sweetmeat, or confection made with almonds or other nuts. 
Nought,n. & adv., See Naught.
Nounal,a., Of or pertaining to a noun.
Nousel,v. t., Alt. of Nousle
Nousle,v. t., To insnare; to entrap.
Nouthe,adv., Alt. of Nowthe
Nowthe,adv., Just now; at present.
Novene,a., Relating to, or dependent on, the number nine; novenary. 
Novice,n., One who is new in any business, profession, or calling; one unacquainted or unskilled; one yet in the rudiments; a beginner; a tyro. 
Novity,n., Newness; novelty.
Noways,adv., In no manner or degree; not at all; nowise.
Nowise,n., Not in any manner or degree; in no way; noways.
Nowthe,, See Nouthe.
Noyful,a., Full of annoyance.
Noyous,a., Annoying; disagreeable.
Nozzle,n., The nose; the snout; hence, the projecting vent of anything; as, the nozzle of a bellows. 
Nuance,n., A shade of difference; a delicate gradation.
Nubbin,n., A small or imperfect ear of maize.
Nubble,v. t., To beat or bruise with the fist.
Nubian,a., Of or pertaining to Nubia in Eastern Africa.
Nubile,a., Of an age suitable for marriage; marriageable.
Nuchal,a., Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the back, or nape, of the neck; -- applied especially to the anterior median plate in the carapace of turtles. 
Nuclei,pl. , of Nucleus
Nucula,n., A genus of small marine bivalve shells, having a pearly interior. 
Nuddle,v. i., To walk quickly with the head bent forward; -- often with along.
Nudge/,imp. & p. p., of Nudge
Nudity,n., The quality or state of being nude; nakedness.
Nugget,n., A lump; a mass, esp. a native lump of a precious metal; as, a nugget of gold. 
Nugify,v. t., To render trifling or futile; to make silly.
Nulled,a., Turned so as to resemble nulls.
Numbed,imp. & p. p., of Numb
Number,n., That which admits of being counted or reckoned; a unit, or an aggregate of units; a numerable aggregate or collection of individuals; an assemblage made up of distinct things expressible by figures. 
Numero,n., Number; -- often abbrev. No.
Nuncio,n., A messenger.
Nuncii,pl. , of Nuncius
Nuphar,n., A genus of plants found in the fresh-water ponds or lakes of Europe, Asia, and North America; the yellow water lily. Cf. Nymphaea. 
Nupson,n., A simpleton; a fool.
Nurled,imp. & p. p., of Nurl
Nursed,imp. & p. p., of Nurse
Nurser,n., One who nurses; a nurse; one who cherishes or encourages growth.
Nustle,v. t., To fondle; to cherish.
Nutted,imp. & p. p., of Nut
Nutant,a., Nodding; having the top bent downward.
Nutlet,n., A small nut; also, the stone of a drupe. 
Nutmeg,n., The kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree (Myristica fragrans
Nutria,n., The fur of the coypu. See Coypu.
Nutter,n., A gatherer of nuts.
Nuzzle,v. t., To noursle or nurse; to foster; to bring up.
Nylgau,n., A large Asiatic antelope (Boselaphus, / Portax, tragocamelus
Nymph/,pl. , of Nympha
Nympha,n., Same as Nymph, 3. 
Oafish,a., Like an oaf; simple.
Oaring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Oar
Obduce,v. t., To draw over, as a covering. 
Obduct,v. t., To draw over; to cover.
Obdure,v. t., To harden.
Obelus,n., A mark [thus /, or ? ]; -- so called as resembling a needle. In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passages or readings. 
Oberon,n., The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab. 
Obeyed,imp. & p. p., of Obey
Obeyer,n., One who yields obedience.
Obfirm,v. t., Alt. of Obfirmate
Obiter,adv., In passing; incidentally; by the way.
Object,v. t., To set before or against; to bring into opposition; to oppose.
Oblate,a., Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid. 
Oblati,n. pl., Children dedicated in their early years to the monastic state.
Oblata,pl. , of Oblatum
Oblige,v. t., To attach, as by a bond. 
Oblite,a., Indistinct; slurred over.
Oblong,a., Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular. 
Oboist,n., A performer on the oboe.
Obolus,n., A small silver coin of Athens, the sixth part of a drachma, about three cents in value. 
Oboval,a., Obovate.
Obsess,v. t., To besiege; to beset.
Obsign,v. t., To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp. 
Obtain,v. t., To hold; to keep; to possess.
Obtend,v. t., To oppose; to hold out in opposition.
Obtest,v. t., To call to witness; to invoke as a witness.
Obtund,v. t., To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall. 
Obtuse,superl., Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees. 
Obvert,v. t., To turn toward.
Occamy,n., An alloy imitating gold or silver.
Occult,a., Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown.
Occupy,v. t., To take or hold possession of; to hold or keep for use; to possess.
Ocelli,pl. , of Ocellus
Ocelot,n., An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis
Ochery,a., Ocherous.
Ochimy,n., See Occamy.
Ochrea,n., A greave or legging.
Ochrey,a., See Ochery.
Ochymy,n., See Occamy.
Octane,n., Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18
Octant,n., The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.
Octave,n., The eighth day after a church festival, the festival day being included; also, the week following a church festival. 
Octavo,n., A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8?. 
Octene,n., Same as Octylene.
Octile,n., Same as Octant, 2. 
Octoic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid. 
Octoyl,n., A hypothetical radical (C8H15O
Octroi,n., A privilege granted by the sovereign authority, as the exclusive right of trade granted to a guild or society; a concession. 
Octuor,n., See Octet.
Ocular,a., Depending on, or perceived by, the eye; received by actual sight; personally seeing or having seen; as, ocular proof. 
Oculus,n., An eye; (Bot.
Oddity,n., The quality or state of being odd; singularity; queerness; peculiarity; as, oddity of dress, manners, and the like. 
Odelet,n., A little or short ode.
Odible,a., Fitted to excite hatred; hateful.
Odinic,a., Of or pertaining to Odin.
Odious,a., Hateful; deserving or receiving hatred; as, an odious name, system, vice. 
Odized,imp. & p. p., of Odize
Odylic,a., Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force. 
Oecoid,n., The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out. 
Oedema,n., A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue.
Offcut,n., That which is cut off.
Offend,v. t., To strike against; to attack; to assail.
Odfend,v. i., To transgress the moral or divine law; to commit a crime; to stumble; to sin.
Office,n., That which a person does, either voluntarily or by appointment, for, or with reference to, others; customary duty, or a duty that arises from the relations of man to man; as, kind offices, pious offices. 
Offing,n., That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, or where there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance from the shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in the offing. 
Offish,a., Shy or distant in manner.
Offlet,n., A pipe to let off water.
Offset,n., In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against, something 
Ogdoad,n., A thing made up of eight parts.
Ogling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ogle
Ogress,n., A female ogre.
Ogrism,n., The character or manners of an ogre.
Oidium,n., A genus of minute fungi which form a floccose mass of filaments on decaying fruit, etc. Many forms once referred to this genus are now believed to be temporary conditions of fungi of other genera, among them the vine mildew (Oidium Tuckeri
Oiling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Oil
Oilery,n., The business, the place of business, or the goods, of a maker of, or dealer in, oils. 
Oillet,n., A small opening or loophole, sometimes circular, used in mediaeval fortifications. 
Oilmen,pl. , of Oilman
Oilman,n., One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils and pickles. 
Oilnut,n., The buffalo nut. See Buffalo nut, under Buffalo. 
Ointed,imp. & p. p., of Oint
Oldish,a., Somewhat old.
Oleate,n., A salt of oleic acid. Some oleates, as the oleate of mercury, are used in medicine by way of inunction. 
Oleone,n., An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, and probably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid. 
Oleose,a., Alt. of Oleous
Oleous,a., Oily.
Oliban,n., See Olibanum.
Olived,a., Decorated or furnished with olive trees.
Oliver,n., An olive grove.
Olivil,n., A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation from the olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties. 
Olivin,n., A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; -- called also olivite. 
Omagra,n., Gout in the shoulder.
Omahas,n. pl., A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri River. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation in Nebraska.
Omasum,n., The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies, and Illust. under Ruminant. 
Omelet,n., Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in a frying pan; as, a plain omelet. 
Omened,imp. & p. p., of Omen
Omenta,pl. , of Omentum
Omnify,v. t., To render universal; to enlarge.
Omnium,n., The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan to government is now usually funded.
Onagri,pl. , of Onager
Onager,n., A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones from a bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery. 
Onagga,n., The dauw.
Onappo,n., A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor
Onethe,adv., Scarcely. See Unnethe.
Onloft,adv., Aloft; above ground.
Onrush,n., A rushing onward.
Onward,a., Moving in a forward direction; tending toward a contemplated or desirable end; forward; as, an onward course, progress, etc. 
Onycha,n., An ingredient of the Mosaic incense, probably the operculum of some kind of strombus. 
Ooecia,pl. , of Ooecium
Ooidal,a., Shaped like an egg.
Oolite,n., A variety of limestone, consisting of small round grains, resembling the roe of a fish. It sometimes constitutes extensive beds, as in the European Jurassic. See the Chart of Geology. 
Oology,n., The science of eggs in relation to their coloring, size, shape, and number. 
Oolong,n., A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor of green tea.
Oomiac,n., Alt. of Oomiak
Oomiak,n., A long, broad boat used by the Eskimos. 
Oopack,n., Alt. of Oopak
Oorial,n., A wild, bearded sheep inhabiting the Ladakh mountains. It is reddish brown, with a dark beard from the chin to the chest. 
Ootype,n., The part of the oviduct of certain trematode worms in which the ova are completed and furnished with a shell.
Oozing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ooze
Opaque,a., Impervious to the rays of light; not transparent; as, an opaque substance. 
Opelet,n., A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, / Anthea, sulcata
Opened,imp. & p. p., of Open
Opener,n., One who, or that which, opens. 
Openly,adv., In an open manner; publicly; not in private; without secrecy.
Ophite,a., Of or pertaining to a serpent.
Opiate,n., Originally, a medicine of a thicker consistence than sirup, prepared with opium. 
Opined,imp. & p. p., of Opine
Opiner,n., One who opines.
Oppone,v. t., To oppose.
Oppose,n., To place in front of, or over against; to set opposite; to exhibit. 
Oppugn,v. t., To fight against; to attack; to be in conflict with; to oppose; to resist.
Optate,v. i., To choose; to wish for; to desire.
Optics,n., That branch of physical science which treats of the nature and properties of light, the laws of its modification by opaque and transparent bodies, and the phenomena of vision. 
Optime,n., One of those who stand in the second rank of honors, immediately after the wranglers, in the University of Cambridge, England. They are divided into senior and junior optimes. 
Option,n., The power of choosing; the right of choice or election; an alternative.
Orache,n., A genus (Atriplex
Oracle,n., The answer of a god, or some person reputed to be a god, to an inquiry respecting some affair or future event, as the success of an enterprise or battle. 
Orally,adv., In an oral manner.
Orange,n., The fruit of a tree of the genus Citrus (C. Aurantium
Orator,n., A public speaker; one who delivers an oration; especially, one distinguished for his skill and power as a public speaker; one who is eloquent. 
Orbing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Orb
Orbate,a., Bereaved; fatherless; childless.
Orbity,n., Orbation.
Orcein,n., A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff, /, obtained from orcin, and forming the essential coloring matter of cudbear and archil. It is closely related to litmus. 
Orchal,n., See Archil.
Orchel,n., Archil.
Orchid,n., Any plant of the order Orchidaceae. See Orchidaceous.
Orchil,n., See Archil.
Orchis,n., A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperate zone, and consisting of about eighty species. They are perennial herbs growing from a tuber (beside which is usually found the last year's tuber also
Ordain,v. t., To set in order; to arrange according to rule; to regulate; to set; to establish.
Ordeal,n., An ancient form of test to determine guilt or innocence, by appealing to a supernatural decision, -- once common in Europe, and still practiced in the East and by savage tribes. 
Ordure,n., Dung; excrement; faeces.
Oregon,, An evergreen species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium
Oreide,n., See Oroide.
Orfray,n., The osprey.
Organy,n., See Origan.
Orgasm,n., Eager or immoderate excitement or action; the state of turgescence of any organ; erethism; esp., the height of venereal excitement in sexual intercourse. 
Orgeat,n., A sirup in which, formerly, a decoction of barley entered, but which is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds, -- used to flavor beverages or edibles. 
Orgeis,n., See Organling.
Orgies,n. pl., A sacrifice accompanied by certain ceremonies in honor of some pagan deity; especially, the ceremonies observed by the Greeks and Romans in the worship of Dionysus, or Bacchus, which were characterized by wild and dissolute revelry. 
Orgyia,n., A genus of bombycid moths whose caterpillars (esp. those of Orgyia leucostigma
Orient,a., Rising, as the sun. 
Origan,n., Alt. of Origanum
Origin,n., The first existence or beginning of anything; the birth.
Oriole,n., Any one of various species of Old World singing birds of the family Oriolidae. They are usually conspicuously colored with yellow and black. The European or golden oriole (Oriolus galbula, or O. oriolus
Orison,n., A prayer; a supplication.
Ormolu,n., A variety of brass made to resemble gold by the use of less zinc and more copper in its composition than ordinary brass contains. Its golden color is often heightened by means of lacquer of some sort, or by use of acids. Called also mosaic gold. 
Ormuzd,n., The good principle, or being, of the ancient Persian religion. See Ahriman. 
Ornate,a., Adorned; decorated; beautiful.
Oroide,n., An alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold in color and brilliancy. 
Orphan,n., A child bereaved of both father and mother; sometimes, also, a child who has but one parent living. 
Orphic,a., Pertaining to Orpheus; Orphean; as, Orphic hymns. 
Orpine,n., A low plant with fleshy leaves (Sedum telephium
Orrach,n., See Orach.
Orrery,n., An apparatus which illustrates, by the revolution of balls moved by wheelwork, the relative size, periodic motions, positions, orbits, etc., of bodies in the solar system. 
Orthid,n., A brachiopod shell of the genus Orthis, and allied genera, of the family Orthidae. 
Orthis,n., An extinct genus of Brachiopoda, abundant in the Paleozoic rocks. 
Ortive,a., Of or relating to the time or act of rising; eastern; as, the ortive amplitude of a planet. 
Oryall,n., See Oriel.
Osages,n. pl., A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the Indian Territory. 
Osanne,n., Hosanna.
Oscine,a., Relating to the Oscines.
Oscule,n., One of the excurrent apertures of sponges.
Oscula,pl. , of Osculum
Osiery,n., An osier bed.
Osiris,n., One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother and husband of Isis. He was figured as a mummy wearing the royal cap of Upper Egypt, and was symbolized by the sacred bull, called Apis. Cf. Serapis. 
Osmate,n., A salt of osmic acid.
Osmite,n., A salt of osmious acid.
Osmium,n., A rare metallic element of the platinum group, found native as an alloy in platinum ore, and in iridosmine. It is a hard, infusible, bluish or grayish white metal, and the heaviest substance known. Its tetroxide is used in histological experiments to stain tissues. Symbol Os. Atomic weight 191.1. Specific gravity 22.477. 
Osmose,n., The tendency in fluids to mix, or become equably diffused, when in contact. It was first observed between fluids of differing densities, and as taking place through a membrane or an intervening porous structure. The more rapid flow from the thinner to the thicker fluid was then called endosmose, and the opposite, slower current, exosmose. Both are, however, results of the same force. Osmose may be regarded as a form of molecular attraction, allied to that of adhesion. 
Osmund,n., A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern. The most remarkable species is the osmund royal, or royal fern (Osmunda regalis
Osprey,n., Alt. of Ospray
Ospray,n., The fishhawk.
Ossean,n., A fish having a bony skeleton; a teleost.
Ossein,n., The organic basis of bone tissue; the residue after removal of the mineral matters from bone by dilute acid; in embryonic tissue, the substance in which the mineral salts are deposited to form bone; -- called also ostein. Chemically it is the same as collagen. 
Ossify,v. t., To form into bone; to change from a soft animal substance into bone, as by the deposition of lime salts. 
Osteal,a., Osseous.
Ostein,n., Ossein.
Ostend,v. t., To exhibit; to manifest.
Ostent,n., Appearance; air; mien.
Ostium,n., An opening; a passage.
Ostler,n., See Hostler.
Ostmen,n. pl., East men; Danish settlers in Ireland, formerly so called. 
Ostrea,n., A genus of bivalve Mollusca which includes the true oysters.
Oswego,, An American aromatic herb (Monarda didyma
Otalgy,n., Pain in the ear; otalgia.
Othman,n. & a., See Ottoman.
Otiose,a., Being at leisure or ease; unemployed; indolent; idle.
Otitis,n., Inflammation of the ear.
Oughne,a., Own.
Ounded,a., Alt. of Oundy
Ouphen,a., Elfish.
Ourang,n., The orang-outang.
Ourebi,n., A small, graceful, and swift African antelope, allied to the klipspringer. 
Ousted,imp. & p. p., of Oust
Ouster,n., A putting out of possession; dispossession; ejection; disseizin.
Outact,v. t., To do or beyond; to exceed in acting.
Outbar,v. t., To bar out.
Outbeg,v. t., To surpass in begging.
Outbid,imp., of Outbid
Outbow,v. t., To excel in bowing.
Outbud,v. i., To sprout.
Outcry,n., A vehement or loud cry; a cry of distress, alarm, opposition, or detestation; clamor. 
Outdid,imp., of Outdo
Outfit,n., A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of a person for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in a foreign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, or allowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the United States to a diplomatic agent going abroad. 
Outfly,v. t., To surpass in flying; to fly beyond or faster than.
Outher,conj., Other.
Outing,n., The act of going out; an airing; an excursion; as, a summer outing. 
Outjet,n., That which jets out or projects from anything.
Outlaw,n., A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived of its protection. 
Outlay,v. t., To lay out; to spread out; to display.
Outlet,n., The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passage out; an exit; a vent.
Outlie,v. t., To exceed in lying.
Output,n., The amount of coal or ore put out from one or more mines, or the quantity of material produced by, or turned out from, one or more furnaces or mills, in a given time. 
Outray,v. t., To outshine.
Outran,imp., of Outrun
Outrun,p. p., of Outrun
Outsee,v. t., To see beyond; to excel in cer/ainty of seeing; to surpass in foresight.
Outset,n., A setting out, starting, or beginning. 
Outsit,v. t., To remain sitting, or in session, longer than, or beyond the time of; to outstay. 
Outtop,v. t., To overtop.
Outvie,v. t., To exceed in vying.
Outway,n., A way out; exit.
Outwin,v. t., To win a way out of.
Outwit,v. t., To surpass in wisdom, esp. in cunning; to defeat or overreach by superior craft. 
Outwoe,v. t., To exceed in woe.
Ovally,adv., In an oval form.
Ovaria,pl. , of Ovarium
Ovated,a., Ovate.
Overdo,v. t., To do too much; to exceed what is proper or true in doing; to exaggerate; to carry too far.
Overgo,v. t., To travel over.
Overly,a., Careless; negligent; inattentive; superfical; not thorough.
Ovisac,n., A Graafian follicle; any sac containing an ovum or ova.
Ovular,a., Relating or belonging to an ovule; as, an ovular growth. 
Ovulum,n., An ovule.
Owelty,n., Equality; -- sometimes written ovelty and ovealty.
Owling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Owl
Owlery,n., An abode or a haunt of owls.
Owling,v. i., The offense of transporting wool or sheep out of England contrary to the statute formerly existing.
Owlish,a., Resembling, or characteristic of, an owl. 
Owlism,n., Affected wisdom; pompous dullness.
Owning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Own
Oxacid,n., See Oxyacid.
Oxalan,n., A complex nitrogenous substance C3N3H5O3 obtained from alloxan (or when urea is fused with ethyl oxamate
Oxalic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, sorrel, or oxalis; specifically, designating an acid found in, and characteristic of, oxalis, and also certain plant of the Buckwheat family. 
Oxalis,n., A genus of plants, mostly herbs, with acid-tasting trifoliolate or multifoliolate leaves; -- called also wood sorrel. 
Oxalyl,n., A hydrocarbon radical (C2O2
Oxamic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained as a fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid and oxamide. Its ammonium salt is obtained by boiling oxamide with ammonia. 
Oxbane,n., A poisonous bulbous plant (Buphane toxicaria
Oxbird,n., The dunlin.
Oxeyed,a., Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox. 
Oxford,a., Of or pertaining to the city or university of Oxford, England. 
Oxgang,n., See Bovate.
Oxgoad,n., A goad for driving oxen.
Oxhead,n., Literally, the head of an ox (emblem of cuckoldom
Oxheal,n., Same as Bear's-foot.
Oxhide,n., The skin of an ox, or leather made from it. 
Oxlike,a., Characteristic of, or like, an ox. 
Oxonic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid (C4H5N3O4
Oxshoe,n., A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed to the hoof. 
Oxygen,n., A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring in the free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per cent by weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavier than nitrogen. Symbol O. Atomic weight 15.96. 
Oxygon,n., A triangle having three acute angles.
Oxymel,n., A mixture of honey, water, vinegar, and spice, boiled to a sirup. 
Oxyopy,n., Excessive acuteness of sight.
Oynoun,n., Onion.
Oyster,n., Any marine bivalve mollusk of the genus Ostrea. They are usually found adhering to rocks or other fixed objects in shallow water along the seacoasts, or in brackish water in the mouth of rivers. The common European oyster (Ostrea edulis
Ozonic,a., Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, ozone. 
Pacane,n., A species of hickory. See Pecan.
Pacate,a., Appeased; pacified; tranquil.
Pacing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pace
Pachak,n., The fragrant roots of the Saussurea Costus, exported from India to China, and used for burning as incense. It is supposed to be the costus of the ancients. 
Pacify,v. t., To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride, appetite, or importunity. 
Packed,imp. & p. p., of Pack
Packer,n., A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer. 
Packet,n., A small pack or package; a little bundle or parcel; as, a packet of letters. 
Padded,imp. & p. p., of Pad
Padder,n., One who, or that which, pads. 
Paddle,v. i., To use the hands or fingers in toying; to make caressing strokes.
Padder,n., One who, or that which, paddles. 
Padnag,n., An ambling nag.
Paeony,n., See Peony.
Paging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Page
Pagina,n., The surface of a leaf or of a flattened thallus.
Paging,n., The marking or numbering of the pages of a book.
Pagoda,n., A term by which Europeans designate religious temples and tower-like buildings of the Hindoos and Buddhists of India, Farther India, China, and Japan, -- usually but not always, devoted to idol worship. 
Paguma,n., Any one of several species of East Indian viverrine mammals of the genus Paguma. They resemble a weasel in form.
Paigle,n., A species of Primula, either the cowslip or the primrose. 
Pained,imp. & p. p., of Pain
Painim,n., A pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively.
Painty,a., Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work is too obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface. 
Paired,imp. & p. p., of Pair
Pairer,n., One who impairs.
Pajock,n., A peacock.
Palace,n., The residence of a sovereign, including the lodgings of high officers of state, and rooms for business, as well as halls for ceremony and reception. 
Palama,n., A membrane extending between the toes of a bird, and uniting them more or less closely together. 
Palate,n., The roof of the mouth.
Paling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pale
Paleae,pl. , of Palea
Palely,a., In a pale manner; dimly; wanly; not freshly or ruddily.
Palesy,n., Palsy.
Paling,n., Pales, in general; a fence formed with pales or pickets; a limit; an inclosure. 
Palish,a., Somewhat pale or wan.
Palkee,n., A palanquin.
Palled,imp. & p. p., of Pall
Pallah,n., A large South African antelope (Aepyceros melampus
Pallas,n., Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva. 
Pallet,n., A small and mean bed; a bed of straw.
Pallid,a., Deficient in color; pale; wan; as, a pallid countenance; pallid blue. 
Pallia,pl. , of Pallium
Pallor,a., Paleness; want of color; pallidity; as, pallor of the complexion. 
Palmed,imp. & p. p., of Palm
Palmar,a., Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand. 
Palmed,a., Having or bearing a palm or palms.
Palmer,v. t., One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice. 
Palmic,a., Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi
Palmin,n., A white waxy or fatty substance obtained from castor oil.
Palola,n., An annelid (Palola viridis
Palped,a., Having a palpus.
Palpus,n., A feeler; especially, one of the jointed sense organs attached to the mouth organs of insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and annelids; as, the mandibular palpi, maxillary palpi, and labial palpi. The palpi of male spiders serve as sexual organs. Called also palp. See Illust. of Arthrogastra and Orthoptera. 
Palter,v. i., To haggle.
Paltry,superl., Mean; vile; worthless; despicable; contemptible; pitiful; trifling; as, a paltry excuse; paltry gold. 
Palule,n., See Palulus or Palus.
Paluli,pl. , of Palulus
Pament,n., A pavement.
Pampas,n. pl., Vast plains in the central and southern part of the Argentine Republic in South America. The term is sometimes used in a wider sense for the plains extending from Bolivia to Southern Patagonia.
Pamper,v. t., To feed to the full; to feed luxuriously; to glut; as, to pamper the body or the appetite. 
Pampre,n., An ornament, composed of vine leaves and bunches of grapes, used for decorating spiral columns. 
Panned,imp. & p. p., of Pan
Panada,n., Alt. of Panade
Panade,n., Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored. 
Panama,, A fine plaited hat, made in Central America of the young leaves of a plant (Carludovica palmata
Panary,a., Of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking.
Pandar,n., Same as Pander.
Pander,n., A male bawd; a pimp; a procurer.
Pandit,n., See Pundit.
Panful,n., Enough to fill a pan.
Panier,n., See Pannier, 3. 
Pannel,n., A kind of rustic saddle.
Pannus,n., A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usually caused by granulation of the eyelids. 
Panted,imp. & p. p., of Pant
Panter,n., One who pants.
Panton,n., A horseshoe to correct a narrow, hoofbound heel. 
Pantry,n., An apartment or closet in which bread and other provisions are kept.
Papacy,n., The office and dignity of the pope, or pontiff, of Rome; papal jurisdiction. 
Papain,n., A proteolytic ferment, like trypsin, present in the juice of the green fruit of the papaw (Carica Papaya
Papery,a., Like paper; having the thinness or consistence of paper.
Papess,n., A female pope; i. e., the fictitious pope Joan. 
Papion,n., A West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx
Papism,n., Popery; -- an offensive term.
Papist,n., A Roman catholic; one who adheres to the Church of Rome and the authority of the pope; -- an offensive designation applied to Roman Catholics by their opponents.
Pappus,n., The hairy or feathery appendage of the achenes of thistles, dandelions, and most other plants of the order Compositae; also, the scales, awns, or bristles which represent the calyx in other plants of the same order. 
Papuan,a., Of or pertaining to Papua.
Papula,n., A pimple; a small, usually conical, elevation of the cuticle, produced by congestion, accumulated secretion, or hypertrophy of tissue; a papule. 
Papule,n., Same as Papula.
Papyri,pl. , of Papyrus
Parade,v. t., The ground where a military display is held, or where troops are drilled. 
Parage,n., Equality of condition, blood, or dignity; also, equality in the partition of an inheritance. 
Parail,n., See Apparel.
Paramo,n., A high, bleak plateau or district, with stunted trees, and cold, damp atmosphere, as in the Andes, in South America. 
Paraph,n., A flourish made with the pen at the end of a signature. In the Middle Ages, this formed a sort of rude safeguard against forgery. 
Parcae,n. pl., The Fates. See Fate, 4. 
Parcel,n., A portion of anything taken separately; a fragment of a whole; a part.
Pardie,adv. / interj., Certainly; surely; truly; verily; -- originally an oath.
Pardon,v. t., The act of pardoning; forgiveness, as of an offender, or of an offense; release from penalty; remission of punishment; absolution. 
Paring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pare
Parent,n., One who begets, or brings forth, offspring; a father or a mother. 
Parfay,interj., By my faith; verily.
Parfit,a., Perfect.
Parget,v. t., To coat with parget; to plaster, as walls, or the interior of flues; as, to parget the outside of their houses. 
Pariah,n., One of an aboriginal people of Southern India, regarded by the four castes of the Hindoos as of very low grade. They are usually the serfs of the Sudra agriculturalists. See Caste. 
Parial,n., See Pair royal, under Pair, n. 
Parian,a., Of or pertaining to Paros, an island in the Aegean Sea noted for its excellent statuary marble; as, Parian marble. 
Paries,n., The triangular middle part of each segment of the shell of a barnacle.
Paring,v. t., The act of cutting off the surface or extremites of anything.
Parish,n., That circuit of ground committed to the charge of one parson or vicar, or other minister having cure of souls therein. 
Parity,n., The quality or condition of being equal or equivalent; A like state or degree; equality; close correspondence; analogy; as, parity of reasoning. 
Parked,imp. & p. p., of Park
Parker,n., The keeper of a park.
Parley,n., Mutual discourse or conversation; discussion; hence, an oral conference with an enemy, as with regard to a truce. 
Parlor,n., A room for business or social conversation, for the reception of guests, etc. 
Parody,n., A writing in which the language or sentiment of an author is mimicked; especially, a kind of literary pleasantry, in which what is written on one subject is altered, and applied to another by way of burlesque; travesty. 
Parole,n., A word; an oral utterance.
Parral,n., Alt. of Parrel
Parrel,n., The rope or collar by which a yard or spar is held to the mast in such a way that it may be hoisted or lowered at pleasure.
Parrot,n., In a general sense, any bird of the order Psittaci. 
Parsed,imp. & p. p., of Parse
Parsee,n., One of the adherents of the Zoroastrian or ancient Persian religion, descended from Persian refugees settled in India; a fire worshiper; a Gheber. 
Parser,n., One who parses.
Parson,n., A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical and corporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochial church, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with the cure of souls. 
Parted,imp. & p. p., of Part
Partan,n., An edible British crab.
Parted,a., Separated; devided.
Parter,n., One who, or which, parts or separates. 
Partly,adv., In part; in some measure of degree; not wholly.
Parvis,n., Alt. of Parvise
Pascha,n., The passover; the feast of Easter.
Paseng,n., The wild or bezoar goat. See Goat.
Pashaw,n., See Pasha.
Pasque,n., See Pasch.
Passed,imp. & p. p., of Pass
Passee,a., Past; gone by; hence, past one's prime; worn; faded; as, a passee belle. 
Passer,n., One who passes; a passenger.
Passim,adv., Here and there; everywhere; as, this word occurs passim in the poem. 
Passus,pl. , of Passus
Pasted,imp. & p. p., of Paste
Pastel,n., A crayon made of a paste composed of a color ground with gum water.
Paster,n., One who pastes; as, a paster in a government department. 
Pastil,n., Alt. of Pastille
Pastor,n., A shepherd; one who has the care of flocks and herds.
Pastry,n., The place where pastry is made.
Patted,imp. & p. p., of Pat
Pataca,n., The Spanish dollar; -- called also patacoon.
Patchy,a., Full of, or covered with, patches; abounding in patches. 
Patela,n., A large flat-bottomed trading boat peculiar to the river Ganges; -- called also puteli.
Patena,n., A paten.
Patent,a., Open; expanded; evident; apparent; unconcealed; manifest; public; conspicuous.
Patera,n., A saucerlike vessel of earthenware or metal, used by the Greeks and Romans in libations and sacrificies. 
Pathed,imp. & p. p., of Path
Pathic,n., A male who submits to the crime against nature; a catamite.
Pathos,n., That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality; as, the pathos of a picture, of a poem, or of a cry. 
Patine,n., A plate. See Paten.
Patina,n., A dish or plate of metal or earthenware; a patella.
Patois,n., A dialect peculiar to the illiterate classes; a provincial form of speech.
Patrol,v. i., To go the rounds along a chain of sentinels; to traverse a police district or beat.
Patron,n., One who protects, supports, or countenances; a defender. 
Pattee,a., Narrow at the inner, and very broad at the other, end, or having its arms of that shape; -- said of a cross. See Illust. (8
Patten,n., A clog or sole of wood, usually supported by an iron ring, worn to raise the feet from the wet or the mud. 
Patter,v. i., To strike with a quick succession of slight, sharp sounds; as, pattering rain or hail; pattering feet. 
Paugie,n., Alt. of Paugy
Paulin,n., See Tarpaulin.
Paunce,n., The pansy.
Paunch,n., The belly and its contents; the abdomen; also, the first stomach, or rumen, of ruminants. See Rumen. 
Pauper,n., A poor person; especially, one development on private or public charity. Also used adjectively; as, pouper immigrants, pouper labor. 
Paused,imp. & p. p., of Pause
Pauser,n., One who pauses.
Pavage,n., See Pavage.
Paving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pave
Pavese,n., Alt. of Pavesse
Pavian,n., See Pavan.
Pavier,n., A paver.
Paviin,n., A glucoside found in species of the genus Pavia of the Horse-chestnut family.
Paving,n., The act or process of laying a pavement, or covering some place with a pavement. 
Pavior,n., One who paves; a paver.
Pavise,n., A large shield covering the whole body, carried by a pavisor, who sometimes screened also an archer with it. 
Pavone,n., A peacock.
Pawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Paw
Pawned,imp. & p. p., of Pawn
Pawnee,n., One or two whom a pledge is delivered as security; one who takes anything in pawn.
Pawner,n., Alt. of Pawnor
Pawnor,n., One who pawns or pledges anything as security for the payment of borrowed money or of a debt.
Pawpaw,n., See Papaw.
Paxwax,n., The strong ligament of the back of the neck in quadrupeds. It connects the back of the skull with dorsal spines of the cervical vertebrae, and helps to support the head. Called also paxywaxy and packwax. 
Paying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pay
Paynim,n. & a., See Painim.
Peachy,a., Resembling a peach or peaches.
Peahen,n., The hen or female peafowl.
Peaked,imp. & p. p., of Peak
Pealed,imp. & p. p., of Peal
Peanut,n., The fruit of a trailing leguminous plant (Arachis hypogaea
Pearch,n., See Perch.
Pearly,a., Containing pearls; abounding with, or yielding, pearls; as, pearly shells. 
Peases,pl. , of Pease
Peasen,pl. , of Pease
Pebble,n., A small roundish stone or bowlder; especially, a stone worn and rounded by the action of water; a pebblestone. 
Pebbly,a., Full of pebbles; pebbled.
Pecary,n., See Peccary.
Pecked,imp. & p. p., of Peck
Pecker,n., One who, or that which, pecks; specif., a bird that pecks holes in trees; a woodpecker. 
Pecora,n. pl., An extensive division of ruminants, including the antelopes, deer, and cattle. 
Pecten,n., A vascular pigmented membrane projecting into the vitreous humor within the globe of the eye in birds, and in many reptiles and fishes; -- also called marsupium. 
Pectic,a., Of or pertaining to pectin; specifically, designating an acid obtained from ordinary vegetable jelly (pectin
Pectin,n., One of a series of carbohydrates, commonly called vegetable jelly, found very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, especially in ripe fleshy fruits, as apples, cranberries, etc. It is extracted as variously colored, translucent substances, which are soluble in hot water but become viscous on cooling. 
Pectus,n., The breast of a bird.
Pedage,n., A toll or tax paid by passengers, entitling them to safe-conduct and protection. 
Pedant,n., A schoolmaster; a pedagogue.
Pedary,n., A sandal.
Pedata,n. pl., An order of holothurians, including those that have ambulacral suckers, or feet, and an internal gill. 
Pedate,a., Palmate, with the lateral lobes cleft into two or more segments; -- said of a leaf. 
Peddle,v. i., To travel about with wares for sale; to go from place to place, or from house to house, for the purpose of retailing goods; as, to peddle without a license. 
Pedial,a., Pertaining to the foot, or to any organ called a foot; pedal. 
Pedlar,n., Alt. of Pedler
Pedler,n., See Peddler.
Peechi,n., The dauw.
Peeled,imp. & p. p., of Peel
Peeler,n., One who peels or strips.
Peenge,v. i., To complain.
Peeped,imp. & p. p., of Peep
Peeper,n., A chicken just breaking the shell; a young bird.
Peepul,, A sacred tree (Ficus religiosa
Peered,imp. & p. p., of Peer
Peerie,a., Alt. of Peery
Peevit,n., Alt. of Peewit
Peewit,n., See Pewit.
Pegged,imp. & p. p., of Peg
Pegger,n., One who fastens with pegs.
Pelage,n., The covering, or coat, of a mammal, whether of wool, fur, or hair. 
Pelfry,n., Pelf; also, figuratively, rubbish; trash. 
Pelick,n., The American coot (Fulica
Peliom,n., A variety of iolite, of a smoky blue color; pelioma. 
Pellet,n., A little ball; as, a pellet of wax / paper. 
Pelted,imp. & p. p., of Pelt
Peltae,pl. , of Pelta
Pelter,n., One who pelts.
Peltry,n., Pelts or skins, collectively; skins with the fur on them; furs. 
Peludo,n., The South American hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus
Pelvic,a., Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pelvis; as, pelvic cellulitis. 
Pelvis,n., The pelvic arch, or the pelvic arch together with the sacrum. See Pelvic arch, under Pelvic, and Sacrum. 
Penned,imp. & p. p., of Pen
Penang,, The betel nut.
Penary,a., Penal.
Pencel,n., A small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; -- called also pennoncel. 
Pencil,n., A small, fine brush of hair or bristles used by painters for laying on colors. 
Pended,imp. & p. p., of Pend
Penmen,pl. , of Penman
Penman,n., One who uses the pen; a writer; esp., one skilled in the use of the pen; a calligrapher; a writing master. 
Pennae,pl. , of Penna
Penned,a., Winged; having plumes.
Penner,n., One who pens; a writer.
Pennon,n., A wing; a pinion.
Penock,n., See Pend.
Pensel,n., A pencel.
Pentad,n., Any element, atom, or radical, having a valence of five, or which can be combined with, substituted for, or compared with, five atoms of hydrogen or other monad; as, nitrogen is a pentad in the ammonium compounds. 
Pentyl,n., The hypothetical radical, C5H11, of pentane and certain of its derivatives. Same as Amyl. 
Penult,n., The last syllable but one of a word; the syllable preceding the final one.
Penury,n., Absence of resources; want; privation; indigence; extreme poverty; destitution.
People,n., The body of persons who compose a community, tribe, nation, or race; an aggregate of individuals forming a whole; a community; a nation. 
Peplis,n., A genus of plants including water purslane.
Peplus,n., An upper garment worn by Grecian and Roman women.
Pepper,n., A well-known, pungently aromatic condiment, the dried berry, either whole or powdered, of the Piper nigrum. 
Pepsin,n., An unorganized proteolytic ferment or enzyme contained in the secretory glands of the stomach. In the gastric juice it is united with dilute hydrochloric acid (0.2 per cent, approximately
Peptic,a., Relating to digestion; promoting digestion; digestive; as, peptic sauces. 
Peract,v. t., To go through with; to perform.
Perdie,adv., See Parde.
Perdix,n., A genus of birds including the common European partridge. Formerly the word was used in a much wider sense to include many allied genera.
Perdue,a., Lost to view; in concealment or ambush; close.
Perfit,a., Perfect.
Perfix,v. t., To fix surely; to appoint.
Period,n., A portion of time as limited and determined by some recurring phenomenon, as by the completion of a revolution of one of the heavenly bodies; a division of time, as a series of years, months, or days, in which something is completed, and ready to recommence and go on in the same order; as, the period of the sun, or the earth, or a comet. 
Perish,v. i., To be destroyed; to pass away; to become nothing; to be lost; to die; hence, to wither; to waste away. 
Perite,a., Skilled.
Perked,imp. & p. p., of Perk
Perkin,n., A kind of weak perry.
Perlid,n., Any insect of the genus Perla, or family Perlidae. See Stone fly, under Stone. 
Permit,v. t., To consent to; to allow or suffer to be done; to tolerate; to put up with.
Permix,v. t., To mix; to mingle.
Pernel,n., See Pimpernel.
Pernio,n., A chilblain.
Pernor,v., One who receives the profits, as of an estate. 
Pernot,, A reverberatory furnace with a circular revolving hearth, -- used in making steel. 
Pernyi,, A silk-producing moth (Attacus Pernyi
Perrie,n., Precious stones; jewels.
Persic,a., Of or relating to Persia.
Persis,n., A kind of coloring matter obtained from lichens.
Person,n., A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind or manifestation of individual character, whether in real life, or in literary or dramatic representation; an assumed character. 
Pertly,adv., In a pert manner.
Peruke,n., A wig; a periwig.
Perula,n., One of the scales of a leaf bud.
Perule,n., Same as Perula.
Peruse,v. t., To observe; to examine with care.
Pervis,n., See Parvis.
Pesade,n., The motion of a horse when, raising his fore quarters, he keeps his hind feet on the ground without advancing; rearing. 
Pesage,n., A fee, or toll, paid for the weighing of merchandise. 
Pesane,n., See Pusane.
Peseta,n., A Spanish silver coin, and money of account, equal to about nineteen cents, and divided into 100 centesimos. 
Pester,v. t., To trouble; to disturb; to annoy; to harass with petty vexations.
Pestle,n., An implement for pounding and breaking or braying substances in a mortar.
Petted,imp. & p. p., of Pet
Petala,pl. , of Petalum
Petard,n., A case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical or cylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank, to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades, drawbridges, etc. It has been superseded. 
Petong,n., See Packfong.
Petrel,n., Any one of numerous species of longwinged sea birds belonging to the family Procellaridae. The small petrels, or Mother Carey's chickens, belong to Oceanites, Oceanodroma, Procellaria, and several allied genera. 
Petrol,n., Petroleum.
Peucil,n., A liquid resembling camphene, obtained by treating turpentine hydrochloride with lime. 
Pewter,n., A hard, tough, but easily fusible, alloy, originally consisting of tin with a little lead, but afterwards modified by the addition of copper, antimony, or bismuth. 
Pexity,n., Nap of cloth.
Peziza,n., A genus of fungi embracing a great number of species, some of which are remarkable for their regular cuplike form and deep colors. 
Phalli,pl. , of Phallus
Pharos,n., A lighthouse or beacon for the guidance of seamen.
Phases,pl. , of Phase
Phasel,n., The French bean, or kidney bean. 
Phases,pl. , of Phasis
Phasis,n., See Phase.
Phasma,n., An apparition; a phantom; an appearance.
Pheese,v. t., To comb; also, to beat; to worry. 
Phenic,a., Of, pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, phenyl or phenol. 
Phenix,n., A bird fabled to exist single, to be consumed by fire by its own act, and to rise again from its ashes. Hence, an emblem of immortality. 
Phenol,n., A white or pinkish crystalline substance, C6H5OH, produced by the destructive distillation of many organic bodies, as wood, coal, etc., and obtained from the heavy oil from coal tar. 
Phenyl,n., A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5
Philip,n., The European hedge sparrow.
Phizes,pl. , of Phiz
Phlegm,a., One of the four humors of which the ancients supposed the blood to be composed. See Humor.
Phleme,n., See Fleam.
Phleum,n., A genus of grasses, including the timothy (Phleum pratense
Phloem,n., That portion of fibrovascular bundles which corresponds to the inner bark; the liber tissue; -- distinguished from xylem.
Phocal,a., Pertaining to seals.
Phoebe,n., The pewee, or pewit. 
Pholad,n., Any species of Pholas.
Pholas,n., Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pholas, or family Pholadidae. They bore holes for themselves in clay, peat, and soft rocks. 
Phonal,a., Of or relating to the voice; as, phonal structure. 
Phonic,a., Of or pertaining to sound; of the nature of sound; acoustic.
Photic,a., Relating to the production of light by the lower animals.
Photos,pl. , of Photo
Phrase,n., A brief expression, sometimes a single word, but usually two or more words forming an expression by themselves, or being a portion of a sentence; as, an adverbial phrase. 
Phthor,n., Fluorine.
Phylae,pl. , of Phyle
Phylon,n., A tribe.
Phylum,n., One of the larger divisions of the animal kingdom; a branch; a grand division.
Physic,n., The art of healing diseases; the science of medicine; the theory or practice of medicine.
Phyton,n., One of the parts which by their repetition make up a flowering plant, each being a single joint of a stem with its leaf or leaves; a phytomer. 
Pieing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pi
Piacle,n., A heinous offense which requires expiation.
Pianet,n., The magpie.
Piapec,n., A West African pie (Ptilostomus Senegalensis
Piatti,n. pl., Cymbals.
Piazza,n., An open square in a European town, especially an Italian town; hence (Arch.
Picard,n., One of a sect of Adamites in the fifteenth century; -- so called from one Picard of Flanders. See Adamite.
Picene,n., A hydrocarbon (C/H/
Pichey,n., A Brazilian armadillo (Dasypus minutus
Picine,a., Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici
Picked,imp. & p. p., of Pick
Pickax,n., Alt. of Pickaxe
Picked,a., Pointed; sharp.
Picker,n., One who, or that which, picks, in any sense, -- as, one who uses a pick; one who gathers; a thief; a pick; a pickax; as, a cotton picker. 
Picket,n., A stake sharpened or pointed, especially one used in fortification and encampments, to mark bounds and angles; or one used for tethering horses. 
Pickle,n., See Picle.
Picksy,n., See Pixy.
Picnic,v., Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the open air, and from food carried by themselves
Picoid,a., Like or pertaining to the Pici.
Picric,a., Pertaining to, or designating, a strong organic acid (called picric acid
Picryl,n., The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl. 
Piddle,v. i., To deal in trifles; to concern one's self with trivial matters rather than with those that are important.
Pieced,imp. & p. p., of Piece
Piecer,n., One who pieces; a patcher.
Piemen,pl. , of Pieman
Pieman,n., A man who makes or sells pies.
Pierce,v. t., To thrust into, penetrate, or transfix, with a pointed instrument. 
Pierid,n., Any butterfly of the genus Pieris and related genera. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. 
Pietra,, Hard and fine stones in general, such as are used for inlay and the like, as distinguished from the softer stones used in building; thus, a Florentine mosaic is a familiar instance of work in pietra dura, though the ground may be soft marble. 
Pigged,imp. & p. p., of Pig
Pigeon,n., Any bird of the order Columbae, of which numerous species occur in nearly all parts of the world. 
Piggin,n., A small wooden pail or tub with an upright stave for a handle, -- often used as a dipper. 
Pignus,n., A pledge or pawn.
Pignut,n., See Groundnut (d
Pigpen,n., A pen, or sty, for pigs. 
Pigsty,n., A pigpen.
Pilage,n., See Pelage.
Piling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pile
Pileus,n., A kind of skull cap of felt.
Pilfer,v. i., To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft. 
Pildia,pl. , of Pilidium
Piling,n., The act of heaping up.
Pilled,imp. & p. p., of Pill
Pillar,n., The general and popular term for a firm, upright, insulated support for a superstructure; a pier, column, or post; also, a column or shaft not supporting a superstructure, as one erected for a monument or an ornament. 
Pillau,n., An Oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or butter. 
Pilled,a., Stripped of hair; scant of hair; bald.
Piller,n., One who pills or plunders.
Pillow,n., Anything used to support the head of a person when reposing; especially, a sack or case filled with feathers, down, hair, or other soft material. 
Pilose,a., Hairy; full of, or made of, hair. 
Pilour,n., A piller; a plunderer.
Pilous,a., See Pilose.
Pilser,n., An insect that flies into a flame.
Piment,n., Wine flavored with spice or honey. See Pigment, 3. 
Pimped,imp. & p. p., of Pimp
Pimple,n., Any small acuminated elevation of the cuticle, whether going on to suppuration or not. 
Pimply,a., Pimpled.
Pinned,imp. & p. p., of Pin
Pindal,n., Alt. of Pindar
Pindar,n., The peanut (Arachis hypogaea
Pinder,n., One who impounds; a poundkeeper.
Pining,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pine
Pineal,a., Of or pertaining to a pine cone; resembling a pine cone.
Pinery,n., A pine forest; a grove of pines.
Pinged,imp. & p. p., of Ping
Pingle,n., A small piece of inclosed ground.
Pining,a., Languishing; drooping; wasting away, as with longing. 
Pinion,n., A moth of the genus Lithophane, as L. antennata, whose larva bores large holes in young peaches and apples. 
Pinite,n., A compact granular cryptocrystalline mineral of a dull grayish or greenish white color. It is a hydrous alkaline silicate, and is derived from the alteration of other minerals, as iolite. 
Pinked,imp. & p. p., of Pink
Pinnae,pl. , of Pinna
Pinnas,pl. , of Pinna
Pinner,n., One who, or that which, pins or fastens, as with pins. 
Pinnet,n., A pinnacle.
Pinole,n., An aromatic powder used in Italy in the manufacture of chocolate.
Pintle,n., A little pin.
Pintos,n. pl., A mountain tribe of Mexican Indians living near Acapulco. They are remarkable for having the dark skin of the face irregularly spotted with white. Called also speckled Indians.
Pinule,n., One of the sights of an astrolabe.
Pinxit,, A word appended to the artist's name or initials on a painting, or engraved copy of a painting; as, Rubens pinxit, Rubens painted (this
Pioned,a., A Shakespearean word of disputed meaning; perh.,   abounding in marsh marigolds.   
Pioner,n., A pioneer.
Pipped,imp. & p. p., of Pip
Pipage,n., Transportation, as of petroleum oil, by means of a pipe conduit; also, the charge for such transportation. 
Piping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pipe
Pipkin,n., A small earthen boiler.
Pippin,n., An apple from a tree raised from the seed and not grafted; a seedling apple.
Pippul,, Same as Peepul tree.
Pipras,pl. , of Pipra
Piqued,imp. & p. p., of Pique
Piquet,n., See Picket.
Piracy,n., The act or crime of a pirate.
Pirate,n., A robber on the high seas; one who by open violence takes the property of another on the high seas; especially, one who makes it his business to cruise for robbery or plunder; a freebooter on the seas; also, one who steals in a harbor. 
Piraya,n., A large voracious fresh-water fish (Serrasalmo piraya
Pirrie,n., A rough gale of wind.
Pisces,n. pl., The twelfth sign of the zodiac, marked / in almanacs. 
Pistel,n., Alt. of Pistil
Pistil,n., An epistle.
Pistic,a., Pure; genuine.
Pistil,n., The seed-bearing organ of a flower. It consists of an ovary, containing the ovules or rudimentary seeds, and a stigma, which is commonly raised on an elongated portion called a style. When composed of one carpel a pistil is simple; when composed of several, it is compound. See Illust. of Flower, and Ovary. 
Pistol,n., The smallest firearm used, intended to be fired from one hand, -- now of many patterns, and bearing a great variety of names. See Illust. of Revolver. 
Piston,n., A sliding piece which either is moved by, or moves against, fluid pressure. It usually consists of a short cylinder fitting within a cylindrical vessel along which it moves, back and forth. It is used in steam engines to receive motion from the steam, and in pumps to transmit motion to a fluid; also for other purposes. 
Pitted,imp. & p. p., of Pit
Pitchy,a., Partaking of the qualities of pitch; resembling pitch.
Pitier,n., One who pities.
Pitmen,pl. , of Pitman
Pitman,n., One who works in a pit, as in mining, in sawing timber, etc. 
Pitpan,n., A long, flat-bottomed canoe, used for the navigation of rivers and lagoons in Central America. 
Pitpat,n. & adv., See Pitapat.
Pitted,a., Marked with little pits, as in smallpox. See Pit, v. t., 2. 
Pitter,n., A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and other stone fruit. 
Pities,pl. , of Pity
Pitied,imp. & p. p., of Pity
Pixies,pl. , of Pixie
Pizzle,n., The penis; -- so called in some animals, as the bull. 
Placed,imp. & p. p., of Place
Placer,n., One who places or sets.
Placet,n., A vote of assent, as of the governing body of a university, of an ecclesiastical council, etc. 
Placid,a., Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful; tranquil; quiet; gentle.
Placit,n., A decree or determination; a dictum.
Plagae,pl. , of Plaga
Plagal,a., Having a scale running from the dominant to its octave; -- said of certain old church modes or tunes, as opposed to those called authentic, which ran from the tonic to its octave. 
Plague,n., That which smites, wounds, or troubles; a blow; a calamity; any afflictive evil or torment; a great trail or vexation. 
Plaguy,a., Vexatious; troublesome; tormenting; as, a plaguy horse. [Colloq.] Also used adverbially; as,   He is so plaguy proud.   
Plaice,n., A European food fish (Pleuronectes platessa
Plaint,n., Audible expression of sorrow; lamentation; complaint; hence, a mournful song; a lament. 
Plaise,n., See Plaice.
Planch,n., A plank.
Planed,imp. & p. p., of Plane
Planer,n., One who, or that which, planes; a planing machine; esp., a machine for planing wood or metals. 
Planet,n., A celestial body which revolves about the sun in an orbit of a moderate degree of eccentricity. It is distinguished from a comet by the absence of a coma, and by having a less eccentric orbit. See Solar system. 
Plaque,n., Any flat, thin piece of metal, clay, ivory, or the like, used for ornament, or for painting pictures upon, as a slab, plate, dish, or the like, hung upon a wall; also, a smaller decoration worn on the person, as a brooch. 
Plashy,a., Watery; abounding with puddles; splashy.
Plasma,n., A variety of quartz, of a color between grass green and leek green, which is found associated with common chalcedony. It was much esteemed by the ancients for making engraved ornaments. 
Platan,n., The plane tree.
Plated,imp. & p. p., of Plate
Platel,n., A small dish.
Platen,n., The part of a printing press which presses the paper against the type and by which the impression is made.
Plater,n., One who plates or coats articles with gold or silver; as, a silver plater. 
Platin,n., See Platen.
Platly,a., Flatly. See Plat, a. 
Played,imp. & p. p., of Play
Player,n., One who plays, or amuses himself; one without serious aims; an idler; a trifler. 
Playte,n., See Pleyt.
Pleach,v. t., To unite by interweaving, as branches of trees; to plash; to interlock. 
Please,v. t., To give pleasure to; to excite agreeable sensations or emotions in; to make glad; to gratify; to content; to satisfy.
Pledge,n., The transfer of possession of personal property from a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt or engagement; also, the contract created between the debtor and creditor by a thing being so delivered or deposited, forming a species of bailment; also, that which is so delivered or deposited; something put in pawn. 
Pleiad,n., One of the Pleiades.
Plenal,a., Full; complete; as, a plenal view or act. 
Plenty,a., Full or adequate supply; enough and to spare; sufficiency; specifically, abundant productiveness of the earth; ample supply for human wants; abundance; copiousness. 
Plenum,n., That state in which every part of space is supposed to be full of matter; -- opposed to vacuum.
Pleura,n., pl. of Pleuron.
Plevin,n., A warrant or assurance.
Plexus,pl. , of Plexus
Pliant,v., Capable of plying or bending; readily yielding to force or pressure without breaking; flexible; pliable; lithe; limber; plastic; as, a pliant thread; pliant wax. Also used figuratively: Easily influenced for good or evil; tractable; as, a pliant heart. 
Pliers,n. pl., A kind of small pinchers with long jaws, -- used for bending or cutting metal rods or wire, for handling small objects such as the parts of a watch, etc. 
Plight,, imp. & p. p. of Plight, to pledge. 
Plinth,n., In classical architecture, a vertically faced member immediately below the circular base of a column; also, the lowest member of a pedestal; hence, in general, the lowest member of a base; a sub-base; a block upon which the moldings of an architrave or trim are stopped at the bottom. See Illust. of Column. 
Plonge,v. t., To cleanse, as open drains which are entered by the tide, by stirring up the sediment when the tide ebbs. 
Plough,n. & v., See Plow.
Plover,n., Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds belonging to the family Charadridae, and especially those belonging to the subfamily Charadrinsae. They are prized as game birds. 
Plough,n., A well-known implement, drawn by horses, mules, oxen, or other power, for turning up the soil to prepare it for bearing crops; also used to furrow or break up the soil for other purposes; as, the subsoil plow; the draining plow. 
Plowed,imp. & p. p., of Plough
Plough,v. t., To turn up, break up, or trench, with a plow; to till with, or as with, a plow; as, to plow the ground; to plow a field. 
Plower,n., Alt. of Plougher
Plucky,superl., Having pluck or courage; characterized by pluck; displaying pluck; courageous; spirited; as, a plucky race. 
Plumae,pl. , of Pluma
Plumed,imp. & p. p., of Plume
Plummy,a., Of the nature of a plum; desirable; profitable; advantageous.
Plumpy,a., Plump; fat; sleek.
Plunge,v. t., To thrust into water, or into any substance that is penetrable; to immerse; to cause to penetrate or enter quickly and forcibly; to thrust; as, to plunge the body into water; to plunge a dagger into the breast. Also used figuratively; as, to plunge a nation into war. 
Plural,a., Relating to, or containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word. 
Plushy,a., Like plush; soft and shaggy.
Plutei,pl. , of Pluteus
Plutus,n., The son of Jason and Ceres, and the god of wealth. He was represented as bearing a cornucopia, and as blind, because his gifts were bestowed without discrimination of merit. 
Plying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ply
Plyght,v. & n., See Plight.
Poachy,a., Wet and soft; easily penetrated by the feet of cattle; -- said of land
Pocket,n., A bag or pouch; especially; a small bag inserted in a garment for carrying small articles, particularly money; hence, figuratively, money; wealth. 
Pocock,n., Peacock.
Podded,imp. & p. p., of Pod
Podder,n., One who collects pods or pulse.
Podium,n., A low wall, serving as a foundation, a substructure, or a terrace wall. 
Podley,n., A young coalfish.
Podura,n., Any small leaping thysanurous insect of the genus Podura and related genera; a springtail.
Poetic,a., Alt. of Poetical
Poetry,n., The art of apprehending and interpreting ideas by the faculty of imagination; the art of idealizing in thought and in expression.
Poised,imp. & p. p., of Poise
Poiser,n., The balancer of dipterous insects.
Poison,n., Any agent which, when introduced into the animal organism, is capable of producing a morbid, noxious, or deadly effect upon it; as, morphine is a deadly poison; the poison of pestilential diseases. 
Poking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Poke
Polack,n., A Polander.
Polary,a., Tending to a pole; having a direction toward a pole.
Polder,n., A tract of low land reclaimed from the sea by of high embankments.
Poling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pole
Poleax,n., Alt. of Poleaxe
Polemy,n., Warfare; war; hence, contention; opposition. 
Police,n., A judicial and executive system, for the government of a city, town, or district, for the preservation of rights, order, cleanliness, health, etc., and for the enforcement of the laws and prevention of crime; the administration of the laws and regulations of a city, incorporated town, or borough. 
Policy,n., Civil polity.
Poling,n., The act of supporting or of propelling by means of a pole or poles; as, the poling of beans; the poling of a boat. 
Polish,a., Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants.
Polite,v., Smooth; polished.
Polity,n., The form or constitution of the civil government of a nation or state; the framework or organization by which the various departments of government are combined into a systematic whole.
Polive,n., A pulley.
Polled,imp. & p. p., of Poll
Pollan,n., A lake whitefish (Coregonus pollan
Pollax,n., A poleax.
Polled,a., Deprived of a poll, or of something belonging to the poll. Specifically: (a
Pollen,n., Fine bran or flour.
Poller,n., One who polls; specifically: (a
Pollex,n., The first, or preaxial, digit of the fore limb, corresponding to the hallux in the hind limb; the thumb. In birds, the pollex is the joint which bears the bastard wing. 
Pollux,n., A fixed star of the second magnitude, in the constellation Gemini. Cf. 3d Castor. 
Polony,n., A kind of sausage made of meat partly cooked.
Polron,n., See Pauldron.
Polwig,n., A polliwig. Holland.
Polype,n., See Polyp.
Polypi,n. pl., The Anthozoa.
Polyve,n., A pulley.
Pomace,n., The substance of apples, or of similar fruit, crushed by grinding. 
Pomade,n., Cider.
Pomelo,n., A variety of shaddock, called also grape fruit. 
Pomely,a., Dappled.
Pomeys,pl. , of Pomey
Pommel,n., A knob or ball; an object resembling a ball in form
Pomona,n., The goddess of fruits and fruit trees.
Pompet,n., The ball formerly used to ink the type.
Pompon,n., Any trifling ornament for a woman's dress or bonnet.
Poncho,n., A kind of cloak worn by the Spanish Americans, having the form of a blanket, with a slit in the middle for the head to pass through. A kind of poncho made of rubber or painted cloth is used by the mounted troops in the United States service. 
Ponder,v. t., To weigh.
Ponent,a., Western; occidental.
Pongee,n., A fabric of undyed silk from India and China.
Pontes,pl. , of Pons
Pontee,n., An iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty. See Fascet. 
Pontic,a., Of or pertaining to the Pontus, Euxine, or Black Sea. 
Pontil,n., Same as Pontee.
Ponton,n., See Pontoon.
Ponies,pl. , of Pony
Poodle,n., A breed of dogs having curly hair, and often showing remarkable intelligence in the performance of tricks. 
Pookoo,n., A red African antelope (Kobus Vardoni
Pooled,imp. & p. p., of Pool
Pooler,n., A stick for stirring a tan vat.
Poonac,n., A kind of oil cake prepared from the cocoanut. See Oil cake, under Cake. 
Poonga,, A kind of oil used in India for lamps, and for boiling with dammar for pitching vessels. It is pressed from the seeds of a leguminous tree (Pongamia glabra
Pooped,imp. & p. p., of Poop
Poorly,adv., In a poor manner or condition; without plenty, or sufficiency, or suitable provision for comfort; as, to live poorly. 
Popped,imp. & p. p., of Pop
Popery,n., The religion of the Roman Catholic Church, comprehending doctrines and practices; -- generally used in an opprobrious sense. 
Popgun,n., A child's gun; a tube and rammer for shooting pellets, with a popping noise, by compression of air. 
Popish,a., Of or pertaining to the pope; taught or ordained by the pope; hence, of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church; -- often used opprobriously. 
Poplar,n., Any tree of the genus Populus; also, the timber, which is soft, and capable of many uses. 
Poplin,n., A fabric of many varieties, usually made of silk and worsted, -- used especially for women's dresses. 
Popper,n., A utensil for popping corn, usually a wire basket with a long handle. 
Poppet,n., See Puppet.
Popple,v. i., To move quickly up and down; to bob up and down, as a cork on rough water; also, to bubble. 
Poring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pore
Porime,n., A theorem or proposition so easy of demonstration as to be almost self-evident.
Porism,n., A proposition affirming the possibility of finding such conditions as will render a certain determinate problem indeterminate or capable of innumerable solutions.
Porite,n., Any coral of the genus Porites, or family Poritidae. 
Porker,n., A hog.
Porket,n., A young hog; a pig.
Porous,n., Full of pores; having interstices in the skin or in the substance of the body; having spiracles or passages for fluids; permeable by liquids; as, a porous skin; porous wood. 
Porpus,n., A porpoise.
Porret,n., A scallion; a leek or small onion.
Ported,imp. & p. p., of Port
Portae,pl. , of Porta
Portal,n., A door or gate; hence, a way of entrance or exit, especially one that is grand and imposing. 
Ported,a., Having gates.
Porter,n., A man who has charge of a door or gate; a doorkeeper; one who waits at the door to receive messages.
Portly,a., Having a dignified port or mien; of a noble appearance; imposing.
Portos,n., See Portass.
Posing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pose
Posied,a., Inscribed with a posy.
Posnet,n., A little basin; a porringer; a skillet.
Posset,n., A beverage composed of hot milk curdled by some strong infusion, as by wine, etc., -- much in favor formerly. 
Possum,n., An opossum.
Posted,imp. & p. p., of Post
Postal,a., Belonging to the post office or mail service; as, postal arrangements; postal authorities. 
Postea,n., The return of the judge before whom a cause was tried, after a verdict, of what was done in the cause, which is indorsed on the nisi prius record. 
Postel,n., Apostle.
Poster,n., A large bill or placard intended to be posted in public places.
Postic,a., Backward.
Postil,n., Originally, an explanatory note in the margin of the Bible, so called because written after the text; hence, a marginal note; a comment. 
Posies,pl. , of Posy
Potted,imp. & p. p., of Pot
Potage,n., See Pottage.
Potale,n., The refuse from a grain distillery, used to fatten swine. 
Potash,n., The hydroxide of potassium hydrate, a hard white brittle substance, KOH, having strong caustic and alkaline properties; -- hence called also caustic potash. 
Potato,n., A plant (Solanum tuberosum
Potboy,n., A boy who carries pots of ale, beer, etc.; a menial in a public house. 
Poteen,n., Whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry. 
Potent,a., Producing great physical effects; forcible; powerful' efficacious; as, a potent medicine. 
Potgun,n., A pot-shaped cannon; a mortar.
Pother,n., Bustle; confusion; tumult; flutter; bother.
Potion,n., A draught; a dose; usually, a draught or dose of a liquid medicine. 
Potlid,n., The lid or cover of a pot.
Potmen,pl. , of Potman
Potman,n., A pot companion.
Potpie,n., A meat pie which is boiled instead of being baked.
Potter,n., One whose occupation is to make earthen vessels.
Pottle,n., A liquid measure of four pints.
Pott's,, Caries of the vertebrae, frequently resulting in curvature of the spine and paralysis of the lower extremities; -- so named from Percival Pott, an English surgeon. 
Poudre,n., Dust; powder.
Poulpe,n., Same as Octopus.
Pounce,n., A fine powder, as of sandarac, or cuttlefish bone, -- formerly used to prevent ink from spreading on manuscript. 
Pounds,pl. , of Pound
Poured,imp. & p. p., of Pour
Pourer,n., One who pours.
Pousse,n., Pulse; pease.
Pouted,imp. & p. p., of Pout
Pouter,n., One who, or that which, pouts. 
Povert,n., Poverty.
Powder,n., The fine particles to which any dry substance is reduced by pounding, grinding, or triturating, or into which it falls by decay; dust. 
Powdry,a., See Powdery.
Powter,n., See Pouter.
Powpow,n., A priest, or conjurer, among the North American Indians. 
Powwow,v. i., To use conjuration, with noise and confusion, for the cure of disease, etc., as among the North American Indians. 
Poxing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pox
Praise,v., To commend; to applaud; to express approbation of; to laud; -- applied to a person or his acts.
Prance,v. i., To spring or bound, as a horse in high mettle. 
Prated,imp. & p. p., of Prate
Prater,n., One who prates.
Pratic,n., See Pratique.
Praxis,n., Use; practice; especially, exercise or discipline for a specific purpose or object. 
Prayed,imp. & p. p., of Pray
Prayer,n., One who prays; a supplicant.
Preace,v. & n., Press.
Preach,v. i., To proclaim or publish tidings; specifically, to proclaim the gospel; to discourse publicly on a religious subject, or from a text of Scripture; to deliver a sermon. 
Preact,v. t., To act beforehand; to perform previously.
Prearm,v. t., To forearm.
Prease,v. t. & i., To press; to crowd.
Precel,v. t. & i., To surpass; to excel; to exceed.
Precis,n., A concise or abridged statement or view; an abstract; a summary.
Predal,a., Of or pertaining to prey; plundering; predatory.
Preedy,adv., With ease.
Prefer,v. t., To carry or bring (something
Prefix,v. t., To put or fix before, or at the beginning of, another thing; as, to prefix a syllable to a word, or a condition to an agreement. 
Prelal,a., Of or pertaining to printing; typographical.
Premit,v. t., To premise.
Prepay,v. t., To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage. 
Presto,a., Quickly; immediately; in haste; suddenly.
Pretex,v. t., To frame; to devise; to disguise or excuse; hence, to pretend; to declare falsely. 
Pretor,n., A civil officer or magistrate among the ancient Romans.
Pretty,superl., Pleasing by delicacy or grace; attracting, but not striking or impressing; of a pleasing and attractive form a color; having slight or diminutive beauty; neat or elegant without elevation or grandeur; pleasingly, but not grandly, conceived or expressed; as, a pretty face; a pretty flower; a pretty poem. 
Preyed,imp. & p. p., of Prey
Preyer,n., One who, or that which, preys; a plunderer; a waster; a devourer. 
Priced,imp. & p. p., of Price
Pricky,a., Stiff and sharp; prickly.
Prided,imp. & p. p., of Pride
Priest,n., A presbyter elder; a minister
Prieve,v. t., To prove.
Primal,a., First; primary; original; chief.
Primed,imp. & p. p., of Prime
Primer,n., One who, or that which, primes 
Primly,adv., In a prim or precise manner.
Primum,, In the Ptolemaic system, the outermost of the revolving concentric spheres constituting the universe, the motion of which was supposed to carry with it all the inclosed spheres with their planets in a daily revolution from east to west. See Crystalline heavens, under Crystalline. 
Primus,n., One of the bishops of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, who presides at the meetings of the bishops, and has certain privileges but no metropolitan authority. 
Prince,a., The one of highest rank; one holding the highest place and authority; a sovereign; a monarch; -- originally applied to either sex, but now rarely applied to a female. 
Priory,n., A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience. See Cell, 2. 
Priser,n., See 1st Prizer.
Prismy,a., Pertaining to a prism.
Prison,n., A place where persons are confined, or restrained of personal liberty; hence, a place or state o/ confinement, restraint, or safe custody. 
Pritch,n., A sharp-pointed instrument; also, an eelspear. 
Privet,n., An ornamental European shrub (Ligustrum vulgare
Prized,imp. & p. p., of Prize
Prizer,n., One who estimates or sets the value of a thing; an appraiser.
Proach,v. i., See Approach.
Probal,a., Approved; probable.
Probed,imp. & p. p., of Probe
Proces,, An authentic minute of an official act, or statement of facts. 
Profit,n., Acquisition beyond expenditure; excess of value received for producing, keeping, or selling, over cost; hence, pecuniary gain in any transaction or occupation; emolument; as, a profit on the sale of goods. 
Progne,n., A swallow.
Progue,v. i., To prog.
Projet,n., A plan proposed; a draft of a proposed measure; a project.
Proleg,n., One of the fleshy legs found on the abdominal segments of the larvae of Lepidoptera, sawflies, and some other insects. Those of Lepidoptera have a circle of hooks. Called also proped, propleg, and falseleg. 
Prolix,a., Extending to a great length; unnecessarily long; minute in narration or argument; excessively particular in detail; -- rarely used except with reference to discourse written or spoken; as, a prolix oration; a prolix poem; a prolix sermon. 
Prolog,n. & v., Prologue.
Prompt,n., A limit of time given for payment of an account for produce purchased, this limit varying with different goods. See Prompt-note. 
Proped,n., Same as Proleg.
Propel,v. t., To drive forward; to urge or press onward by force; to move, or cause to move; as, the wind or steam propels ships; balls are propelled by gunpowder. 
Proper,a., Belonging to one; one's own; individual.
Propyl,n., The hypothetical radical C3H7, regarded as the essential residue of propane and related compounds. 
Prosal,a., Of or pertaining to prose; prosaic.
Prosed,imp. & p. p., of Prose
Proser,n., A writer of prose.
Proant,n., Provender or food.
Proved,imp. & p. p., of Prove
Proven,p. p. / a., Proved.
Prover,n., One who, or that which, proves. 
Pruned,imp. & p. p., of Prune
Pruner,n., One who prunes, or removes, what is superfluous. 
Prunus,n., A genus of trees with perigynous rosaceous flowers, and a single two-ovuled carpel which usually becomes a drupe in ripening. 
Prying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pry
Psoric,a., Of or pertaining to psora.
Psyche,n., A lovely maiden, daughter of a king and mistress of Eros, or Cupid. She is regarded as the personification of the soul. 
Psylla,n., Any leaping plant louse of the genus Psylla, or family Psyllidae. 
Pteron,n., The region of the skull, in the temporal fossa back of the orbit, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the temporal, the parietal, and the frontal hones approach each other. 
Ptisan,n., A decoction of barley with other ingredients; a farinaceous drink.
Ptosis,n., Drooping of the upper eyelid, produced by paralysis of its levator muscle. 
Ptyxis,n., The way in which a leaf is sometimes folded in the bud.
Pubble,a., Puffed out, pursy; pudgy; fat. 
Public,a., Of or pertaining to the people; belonging to the people; relating to, or affecting, a nation, state, or community; -- opposed to private; as, the public treasury. 
Pucker,v. t. & i., To gather into small folds or wrinkles; to contract into ridges and furrows; to corrugate; -- often with up; as, to pucker up the mouth. 
Pucras,n., See Koklass.
Pudder,v. i., To make a tumult or bustle; to splash; to make a pother or fuss; to potter; to meddle.
Puddle,n., A small quantity of dirty standing water; a muddy plash; a small pool.
Puddly,a., Consisting of, or resembling, puddles; muddy; foul. 
Pueblo,n., A communistic building erected by certain Indian tribes of Arizona and New Mexico. It is often of large size and several stories high, and is usually built either of stone or adobe. The term is also applied to any Indian village in the same region. 
Puerco,n., A hog.
Puffed,imp. & p. p., of Puff
Puffer,n., One who puffs; one who praises with noisy or extravagant commendation.
Puffin,n., An arctic sea bird Fratercula arctica
Pugged,imp. & p. p., of Pug
Pugger,v. t., To pucker.
Puisne,a., Later in age, time, etc.; subsequent. 
Puisny,a., Puisne; younger; inferior; petty; unskilled.
Puking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Puke
Puling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Pule
Pulkha,n., A Laplander's traveling sledge. See Sledge.
Pulled,imp. & p. p., of Pull
Pullen,n., Poultry.
Puller,n., One who, or that which, pulls. 
Pullet,n., A young hen, or female of the domestic fowl. 
Pulley,v. t., A wheel with a broad rim, or grooved rim, for transmitting power from, or imparting power to, the different parts of machinery, or for changing the direction of motion, by means of a belt, cord, rope, or chain. 
Pullus,n., A chick; a young bird in the downy stage.
Pulped,imp. & p. p., of Pulp
Pulpit,n., An elevated place, or inclosed stage, in a church, in which the clergyman stands while preaching. 
Pulque,n., An intoxicating Mexican drink. See Agave.
Pulvil,n., A sweet-scented powder; pulvillio.
Pumice,n., A very light porous volcanic scoria, usually of a gray color, the pores of which are capillary and parallel, giving it a fibrous structure. It is supposed to be produced by the disengagement of watery vapor without liquid or plastic lava. It is much used, esp. in the form of powder, for smoothing and polishing. Called also pumice stone. 
Pummel,n. & v. t., Same as Pommel.
Pumped,imp. & p. p., of Pump
Pumper,n., One who pumps; the instrument or machine used in pumping.
Pumpet,n., A pompet.
Punned,imp. & p. p., of Pun
Punchy,a., Short and thick, or fat. 
Puncto,n., A nice point of form or ceremony.
Pundit,n., A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official. 
Pundle,n., A short and fat woman; a squab.
Punese,n., A bedbug.
Punice,n., See Punese.
Punish,v. t., To impose a penalty upon; to afflict with pain, loss, or suffering for a crime or fault, either with or without a view to the offender's amendment; to cause to suffer in retribution; to chasten; as, to punish traitors with death; a father punishes his child for willful disobedience. 
Punkin,n., A pumpkin.
Punner,n., A punster.
Punnet,n., A broad, shallow basket, for displaying fruit or flowers. 
Punter,v. t., One who punts; specifically, one who plays against the banker or dealer, as in baccara and faro. 
Puntil,n., Alt. of Puntel
Puntel,n., See Pontee.
Pupped,imp. & p. p., of Pup
Pupate,v. i., To become a pupa.
Pupelo,n., Cider brandy.
Puppet,n., A small image in the human form; a doll.
Purred,imp. & p. p., of Pur
Purana,n., One of a class of sacred Hindoo poetical works in the Sanskrit language which treat of the creation, destruction, and renovation of worlds, the genealogy and achievements of gods and heroes, the reigns of the Manus, and the transactions of their descendants. The principal Puranas are eighteen in number, and there are the same number of supplementary books called Upa Puranas. 
Purdah,n., A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white stripes, used for curtains. 
Purely,adv., In a pure manner (in any sense of the adjective
Purfle,v. t., To decorate with a wrought or flowered border; to embroider; to ornament with metallic threads; as, to purfle with blue and white. 
Purged,imp. & p. p., of Purge
Purger,n., One who, or that which, purges or cleanses; especially, a cathartic medicine. 
Purify,v. t., To make pure or clear from material defilement, admixture, or imperfection; to free from extraneous or noxious matter; as, to purify liquors or metals; to purify the blood; to purify the air. 
Purism,n., Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice, especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity. 
Purist,n., One who aims at excessive purity or nicety, esp. in the choice of language. 
Purity,n., The condition of being pure.
Purled,imp. & p. p., of Purl
Purlin,n., Alt. of Purline
Purple,n., A color formed by, or resembling that formed by, a combination of the primary colors red and blue. 
Purpre,n. & a., Purple.
Purree,n., A yellow coloring matter. See Euxanthin.
Pursed,imp. & p. p., of Purse
Purser,n., A commissioned officer in the navy who had charge of the provisions, clothing, and public moneys on shipboard; -- now called paymaster. 
Purset,n., A purse or purse net.
Pursue,v. t., To follow with a view to overtake; to follow eagerly, or with haste; to chase; as, to pursue a hare. 
Purvey,v. t., To furnish or provide, as with a convenience, provisions, or the like. 
Pusane,n., A piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or reenforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane. 
Pushed,imp. & p. p., of Push
Pusher,n., One who, or that which, pushes. 
Pusley,n., Purslane.
Putage,n., Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman.
Puteal,n., An inclosure surrounding a well to prevent persons from falling into it; a well curb.
Puteli,n., Same as Patela.
Putery,n., Putage.
Putlog,n., One of the short pieces of timber on which the planks forming the floor of a scaffold are laid, -- one end resting on the ledger of the scaffold, and the other in a hole left in the wall temporarily for the purpose. 
Putour,n., A keeper of a brothel; a procurer.
Putrid,a., Tending to decomposition or decay; decomposed; rotten; -- said of animal or vegetable matter; as, putrid flesh. See Putrefaction. 
Putter,n., One who puts or plates.
Puzzel,n., A harlot; a drab; a hussy.
Puzzle,v., Something which perplexes or embarrasses; especially, a toy or a problem contrived for testing ingenuity; also, something exhibiting marvelous skill in making. 
Pyemia,n., See PyAemia.
Pygarg,, Alt. of Pygargus
Pyjama,n., In India and Persia, thin loose trowsers or drawers; in Europe and America, drawers worn at night, or a kind of nightdress with legs. 
Pylori,pl. , of Pylorus
Pynoun,n., A pennant.
Pyrena,n., A nutlet resembling a seed, or the kernel of a drupe. 
Pyrene,n., One of the less volatile hydrocarbons of coal tar, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C16H10. 
Pyrgom,n., A variety of pyroxene; -- called also fassaite.
Pyrite,n., A common mineral of a pale brass-yellow color and brilliant metallic luster, crystallizing in the isometric system; iron pyrites; iron disulphide. 
Pyrope,n., A variety of garnet, of a poppy or blood-red color, frequently with a tinge of orange. It is used as a gem. See the Note under Garnet. 
Pyrrol,n., A nitrogenous base found in coal tar, bone oil, and other distillates of organic substances, and also produced synthetically as a colorless liquid, C4H5N, having on odor like that of chloroform. It is the nucleus and origin of a large number of derivatives. So called because it colors a splinter of wood moistened with hydrochloric acid a deep red. 
Pyrula,n., A genus of large marine gastropods. having a pear-shaped shell. It includes the fig-shells. See Illust. in Appendix.
Python,n., Any species of very large snakes of the genus Python, and allied genera, of the family Pythonidae. They are nearly allied to the boas. Called also rock snake. 
Pyuria,n., A morbid condition in which pus is discharged in the urine.
Quacha,n., The quagga.
Quadra,n., The plinth, or lowest member, of any pedestal, podium, water table, or the like. 
Quaere,v. imperative., Inquire; question; see; -- used to signify doubt or to suggest investigation.
Quagga,n., A South African wild ass (Equus, / Hippotigris, quagga
Quaggy,a., Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under the foot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy. 
Quahog,n., Alt. of Quahaug
Quaigh,n., Alt. of Quaich
Quaich,n., A small shallow cup or drinking vessel.
Quaily,n., The upland plover.
Quaint,a., Prudent; wise; hence, crafty; artful; wily. 
Quaked,imp. & p. p., of Quake
Quaker,n., One who quakes.
Quandy,n., The old squaw.
Quanta,pl. , of Quantum
Quarry,n., Same as 1st Quarrel.
Quarte,n., Same as 2d Carte.
Quarto,a., Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a quarto.
Quartz,n., A form of silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2
Quasje,n., The brown coati. See Coati.
Quatch,a., Squat; flat.
Quatre,n., A card, die. or domino, having four spots, or pips 
Quaver,v. i., To tremble; to vibrate; to shake.
Queach,n., A thick, bushy plot; a thicket. 
Queasy,a., Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea; inclined to vomit; qualmish.
Quebec,, The middle of the three groups into which the rocks of the Canadian period have been divided in the American Lower Silurian system. See the Chart of Geology.
Queest,n., The European ringdove (Columba palumbus
Queint,a., See Quaint.
Quench,v. t., To extinguish; to overwhelm; to make an end of; -- said of flame and fire, of things burning, and figuratively of sensations and emotions; as, to quench flame; to quench a candle; to quench thirst, love, hate, etc. 
Querpo,n., The inner or body garments taken together. See Cuerpo.
Querry,n., A groom; an equerry.
Quesal,n., The long-tailed, or resplendent, trogon (Pharomachus mocinno, formerly Trogon resplendens
Quidam,n., Somebody; one unknown.
Quince,n., The fruit of a shrub (Cydonia vulgaris
Quinch,v. i., To stir; to wince.
Quinia,n., Quinine.
Quinic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc., as a white crystalline substance. 
Quinoa,n., The seeds of a kind of goosewort (Chenopodium Quinoa
Quinsy,n., An inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition, and accompanied by inflammatory fever. It sometimes creates danger of suffocation; -- called also squinancy, and squinzey. 
Quinze,n., A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points.
Quipus,pl. , of Quipu
Quirky,a., Full of quirks; tricky; as, a quirky lawyer. 
Quitch,n., Same as Quitch grass.
Quitly,adv., Quite.
Quiver,a., Nimble; active.
Quorum,n., Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is competent by law or constitution to transact business; as, a quorum of the House of Representatives; a constitutional quorum was not present. 
Quoted,imp. & p. p., of Quote
Quoter,n., One who quotes the words of another.
Quotha,interj., Indeed; forsooth.
Quotum,n., Part or proportion; quota.
Rabate,v., To recover to the fist, as a hawk. 
Rabato,n., A kind of ruff for the neck; a turned-down collar; a rebato.
Rabbet,v. t., To cut a rabbet in; to furnish with a rabbet.
Rabbis,pl. , of Rabbi
Rabbin,n., Same as Rabbi.
Rabbit,n., Any of the smaller species of the genus Lepus, especially the common European species (Lepus cuniculus
Rabble,n., An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling. 
Rabies,n., Same as Hydrophobia (b
Racing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Race
Raceme,n., A flower cluster with an elongated axis and many one-flowered lateral pedicels, as in the currant and chokecherry. 
Rachis,n., The spine; the vertebral column.
Racial,a., Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion. 
Racily,adv., In a racy manner.
Racing,, a. & n. from Race, v. t. & i. 
Racked,imp. & p. p., of Rack
Racker,n., One who racks.
Racket,n., A thin strip of wood, having the ends brought together, forming a somewhat elliptical hoop, across which a network of catgut or cord is stretched. It is furnished with a handle, and is used for catching or striking a ball in tennis and similar games. 
Raddle,n., A long, flexible stick, rod, or branch, which is interwoven with others, between upright posts or stakes, in making a kind of hedge or fence. 
Radeau,n., A float; a raft.
Radial,a., Of or pertaining to a radius or ray; consisting of, or like, radii or rays; radiated; as, (Bot.
Radian,n., An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc. 
Radish,n., The pungent fleshy root of a well-known cruciferous plant (Raphanus sativus
Radius,n., A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere.
Radula,n., The chitinous ribbon bearing the teeth of mollusks; -- called also lingual ribbon, and tongue. See Odontophore. 
Raffed,imp. & p. p., of Raff
Raffia,n., A fibrous material used for tying plants, said to come from the leaves of a palm tree of the genus Raphia. 
Raffle,v., A kind of lottery, in which several persons pay, in shares, the value of something put up as a stake, and then determine by chance (as by casting dice
Rafted,imp. & p. p., of Raft
Rafter,n., A raftsman.
Ragged,imp. & p. p., of Rag
Raging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rage
Ragery,n., Wantonness.
Ragged,n., Rent or worn into tatters, or till the texture is broken; as, a ragged coat; a ragged sail. 
Raggie,a., Alt. of Raggy
Raging,, a. & n. from Rage, v. i. 
Raglan,n., A loose overcoat with large sleeves; -- named from Lord Raglan, an English general. 
Ragmen,pl. , of Ragman
Ragman,n., A man who collects, or deals in, rags. 
Ragout,n., A dish made of pieces of meat, stewed, and highly seasoned; as, a ragout of mutton. 
Raided,imp. & p. p., of Raid
Raider,n., One who engages in a raid.
Railed,imp. & p. p., of Rail
Railer,n., One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language. 
Rained,imp. & p. p., of Rain
Raised,imp. & p. p., of Raise
Raiser,n., One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb
Raisin,n., A grape, or a bunch of grapes. 
Raivel,n., A separator.
Rajput,n., A Hindoo of the second, or royal and military, caste; a Kshatriya; especially, an inhabitant of the country of Rajpootana, in northern central India. 
Raking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rake
Rakery,n., Debauchery; lewdness.
Raking,n., The act or process of using a rake; the going over a space with a rake.
Rakish,a., Dissolute; lewd; debauched.
Rammed,imp. & p. p., of Ram
Ramage,n., Boughs or branches.
Ramble,v. i., To walk, ride, or sail, from place to place, without any determinate object in view; to roam carelessly or irregularly; to rove; to wander; as, to ramble about the city; to ramble over the world. 
Rameal,a., Same as Ramal.
Ramean,n., A Ramist.
Rament,n., A scraping; a shaving.
Ramify,v. t., To divide into branches or subdivisions; as, to ramify an art, subject, scheme. 
Ramist,n., A follower of Pierre Rame, better known as Ramus, a celebrated French scholar, who was professor of rhetoric and philosophy at Paris in the reign of Henry II., and opposed the Aristotelians. 
Rammel,n., Refuse matter.
Rammer,n., One who, or that which, rams or drives. 
Ramoon,n., A small West Indian tree (Trophis Americana
Ramose,a., Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy. 
Ramous,a., Ramose.
Ramped,imp. & p. p., of Ramp
Ramrod,n., The rod used in ramming home the charge in a muzzle-loading firearm.
Ramson,n., A broad-leaved species of garlic (Allium ursinum
Ramuli,pl. , of Ramulus
Rancho,n., A rude hut, as of posts, covered with branches or thatch, where herdsmen or farm laborers may live or lodge at night. 
Rancid,a., Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty; as, rancid oil or butter. 
Rancor,n., The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred.
Randan,n., The product of a second sifting of meal; the finest part of the bran.
Random,n., Force; violence.
Randon,n., Random.
Ranged,imp. & p. p., of Range
Ranger,n., One who ranges; a rover; sometimes, one who ranges for plunder; a roving robber. 
Rangle,v. i., To range about in an irregular manner.
Ranine,a., Of or pertaining to the frogs and toads.
Ranked,imp. & p. p., of Rank
Ranker,n., One who ranks, or disposes in ranks; one who arranges. 
Rankle,a., To become, or be, rank; to grow rank or strong; to be inflamed; to fester; -- used literally and figuratively. 
Rankly,adv., With rank or vigorous growth; luxuriantly; hence, coarsely; grossly; as, weeds grow rankly. 
Rannel,n., A prostitute.
Ransom,n., The release of a captive, or of captured property, by payment of a consideration; redemption; as, prisoners hopeless of ransom. 
Ranted,imp. & p. p., of Rant
Ranter,n., A noisy talker; a raving declaimer.
Ranula,n., A cyst formed under the tongue by obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland.
Rapped,imp. & p. p., of Rap
Rapier,n., A straight sword, with a narrow and finely pointed blade, used only for thrusting. 
Rapine,n., The act of plundering; the seizing and carrying away of things by force; spoliation; pillage; plunder.
Rapped,, imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike. 
Rappee,v., A pungent kind of snuff made from the darker and ranker kinds of tobacco leaves.
Rappel,n., The beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms.
Rapper,n., One who, or that which, raps or knocks; specifically, the knocker of a door. 
Rapter,n., A raptor.
Raptor,n., A ravisher; a plunderer.
Rarefy,v. t., To make rare, thin, porous, or less dense; to expand or enlarge without adding any new portion of matter to; -- opposed to condense. 
Rarely,adv., In a rare manner or degree; seldom; not often; as, things rarely seen. 
Rarity,n., The quality or state of being rare; rareness; thinness; as, the rarity (contrasted with the density
Rascal,v., One of the rabble; a low, common sort of person or creature; collectively, the rabble; the common herd; also, a lean, ill-conditioned beast, esp. a deer. 
Rasing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rase
Rasher,n., A thin slice of bacon.
Rashly,adv., In a rash manner; with precipitation.
Rasour,n., Razor.
Rasped,imp. & p. p., of Rasp
Rasper,n., One who, or that which, rasps; a scraper. 
Raspis,n., The raspberry.
Rasure,v., The act of rasing, scraping, or erasing; erasure; obliteration. 
Ratted,imp. & p. p., of Rat
Ratany,n., Same as Rhatany.
Rating,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rate
Rather,a., Prior; earlier; former.
Ratify,n., To approve and sanction; to make valid; to confirm; to establish; to settle; especially, to give sanction to, as something done by an agent or servant; as, to ratify an agreement, treaty, or contract; to ratify a nomination. 
Ration,n., A fixed daily allowance of provisions assigned to a soldier in the army, or a sailor in the navy, for his subsistence. 
Ratite,a., Of or pertaining to the Ratitae.
Ratoon,n., Same as Rattoon, n. 
Rattan,n., One of the long slender flexible stems of several species of palms of the genus Calamus, mostly East Indian, though some are African and Australian. They are exceedingly tough, and are used for walking sticks, wickerwork, chairs and seats of chairs, cords and cordage, and many other purposes. 
Ratten,v. t., To deprive feloniously of the tools used in one's employment (as by breaking or stealing them
Ratter,n., One who, or that which, rats, as one who deserts his party. 
Rattle,v. i., To make a quick succession of sharp, inharmonious noises, as by the collision of hard and not very sonorous bodies shaken together; to clatter. 
Raucid,a., Hoarse; raucous.
Raught,, imp. & p. p. of Reach.
Raunch,v. t., See Ranch.
Ravage,n., Desolation by violence; violent ruin or destruction; devastation; havoc; waste; as, the ravage of a lion; the ravages of fire or tempest; the ravages of an army, or of time. 
Raving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rave
Ravine,n., Food obtained by violence; plunder; prey; raven.
Raving,a., Talking irrationally and wildly; as, a raving lunatic. 
Ravish,v. t., To seize and carry away by violence; to snatch by force.
Rawish,a., Somewhat raw.
Raying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ray
Razing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Raze
Razeed,imp. & p. p., of Razee
Razure,n., The act of erasing or effacing, or the state of being effaced; obliteration. See Rasure. 
Razzia,n., A plundering and destructive incursion; a foray; a raid.
Raught,, of Reach
Reader,n., One who reads.
Really,adv., Royally.
Realty,n., Royalty.
Reamed,imp. & p. p., of Ream
Reamer,n., One who, or that which, reams; specifically, an instrument with cutting or scraping edges, used, with a twisting motion, for enlarging a round hole, as the bore of a cannon, etc. 
Reaped,imp. & p. p., of Reap
Reaper,n., One who reaps.
Reared,imp. & p. p., of Rear
Rearer,n., One who, or that which, rears. 
Rearly,adv., Early.
Reason,n., A thought or a consideration offered in support of a determination or an opinion; a just ground for a conclusion or an action; that which is offered or accepted as an explanation; the efficient cause of an occurrence or a phenomenon; a motive for an action or a determination; proof, more or less decisive, for an opinion or a conclusion; principle; efficient cause; final cause; ground of argument. 
Reasty,a., Rusty and rancid; -- applied to salt meat.
Reaume,n., Realm.
Reaved,imp. & p. p., of Reave
Reaver,n., One who reaves.
Rebate,v. t., To beat to obtuseness; to deprive of keenness; to blunt; to turn back the point of, as a lance used for exercise. 
Rebato,n., Same as Rabato.
Reboil,v. t. & i., To boil, or to cause to boil, again. 
Reborn,p. p., Born again.
Rebuff,n., Repercussion, or beating back; a quick and sudden resistance. 
Rebuke,v. t., To check, silence, or put down, with reproof; to restrain by expression of disapprobation; to reprehend sharply and summarily; to chide; to reprove; to admonish. 
Rebury,v. t., To bury again.
Recall,v. t., To call back; to summon to return; as, to recall troops; to recall an ambassador. 
Recant,v. t., To withdraw or repudiate formally and publicly (opinions formerly expressed
Recast,v. t., To throw again.
Recche,v. i., To reck.
Recede,v. i., To move back; to retreat; to withdraw.
Receit,n., Receipt.
Recent,a., Of late origin, existence, or occurrence; lately come; not of remote date, antiquated style, or the like; not already known, familiar, worn out, trite, etc.; fresh; novel; new; modern; as, recent news. 
Recess,n., A withdrawing or retiring; a moving back; retreat; as, the recess of the tides. 
Recipe,n., A formulary or prescription for making some combination, mixture, or preparation of materials; a receipt; especially, a prescription for medicine. 
Recite,v. t., To repeat, as something already prepared, written down, committed to memory, or the like; to deliver from a written or printed document, or from recollection; to rehearse; as, to recite the words of an author, or of a deed or covenant. 
Recked,imp. & p. p., of Reck
Reckon,v. t., To count; to enumerate; to number; also, to compute; to calculate. 
Recoct,v. t., To boil or cook again; hence, to make over; to vamp up; to reconstruct. 
Recoil,v. i., To start, roll, bound, spring, or fall back; to take a reverse motion; to be driven or forced backward; to return. 
Recoin,v. t., To coin anew or again.
Recopy,v. t., To copy again.
Record,v. t., To recall to mind; to recollect; to remember; to meditate.
Recoup,v. t., Alt. of Recoupe
Rectal,a., Of or pertaining to the rectum; in the region of the rectum.
Rector,n., A ruler or governor.
Rectum,n., The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named because supposed by the old anatomists to be straight. See Illust. under Digestive.
Rectus,n., A straight muscle; as, the recti of the eye. 
Recule,v. i., To recoil.
Recumb,v. i., To lean; to recline; to repose.
Recure,v. t., To arrive at; to reach; to attain.
Recuse,v. t., To refuse or reject, as a judge; to challenge that the judge shall not try the cause. 
Redact,v. t., To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put in shape (matter for publication
Redbud,n., A small ornamental leguminous tree of the American species of the genus Cercis. See Judas tree, under Judas. 
Redcap,n., The European goldfinch.
Redden,a., To make red or somewhat red; to give a red color to.
Reddle,n., Red chalk. See under Chalk.
Redeem,v. t., To purchase back; to regain possession of by payment of a stipulated price; to repurchase.
Redeye,n., The rudd.
Redfin,n., A small North American dace (Minnilus cornutus, or Notropis megalops
Rediae,pl. , of Redia
Redias,pl. , of Redia
Redleg,n., Alt. of Redlegs
Redowa,n., A Bohemian dance of two kinds, one in triple time, like a waltz, the other in two-four time, like a polka. The former is most in use. 
Redrew,imp., of Redraw
Redraw,v. t., To draw again; to make a second draft or copy of; to redraft.
Redtop,n., A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris
Reduce,n., To bring or lead back to any former place or condition.
Reduct,v. t.., To reduce.
Reduit,n., A central or retired work within any other work.
Reebok,n., The peele.
Reecho,v. t., To echo back; to reverberate again; as, the hills reecho the roar of cannon. 
Reechy,a., Smoky; reeky; hence, begrimed with dirt. 
Reeded,a., Civered with reeds; reedy.
Reeden,a., Consisting of a reed or reeds.
Reefed,imp. & p. p., of Reef
Reefer,n., One who reefs; -- a name often given to midshipmen.
Reeked,imp. & p. p., of Reek
Reeled,imp. & p. p., of Reel
Reeler,n., One who reels.
Reezed,a., Grown rank; rancid; rusty.
Refect,v. t., To restore after hunger or fatigue; to refresh.
Refill,v. t. & i., To fill, or become full, again. 
Refind,v. t., To find again; to get or experience again.
Refine,v. t., To reduce to a fine, unmixed, or pure state; to free from impurities; to free from dross or alloy; to separate from extraneous matter; to purify; to defecate; as, to refine gold or silver; to refine iron; to refine wine or sugar. 
Reflex,a., Directed back; attended by reflection; retroactive; introspective.
Reflow,v. i., To flow back; to ebb.
Reflux,a., Returning, or flowing back; reflex; as, reflux action. 
Refold,v. t., To fold again.
Reform,v. t., To put into a new and improved form or condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate man; to reform corrupt manners or morals. 
Refret,n., Refrain.
Refuge,n., Shelter or protection from danger or distress.
Refund,v. t., To fund again or anew; to replace (a fund or loan
Refuse,v. t., To deny, as a request, demand, invitation, or command; to decline to do or grant. 
Refute,v. t., To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; as, to refute arguments; to refute testimony; to refute opinions or theories; to refute a disputant. 
Regain,v. t., To gain anew; to get again; to recover, as what has escaped or been lost; to reach again. 
Regale,n., A prerogative of royalty.
Regard,v. t., To keep in view; to behold; to look at; to view; to gaze upon.
Regent,a., Ruling; governing; regnant.
Regest,n., A register.
Regian,n., An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist.
Regild,v. t., To gild anew.
Regime,n., Mode or system of rule or management; character of government, or of the prevailing social system. 
Region,n., One of the grand districts or quarters into which any space or surface, as of the earth or the heavens, is conceived of as divided; hence, in general, a portion of space or territory of indefinite extent; country; province; district; tract. 
Regius,a., Of or pertaining to a king; royal.
Regive,v. t., To give again; to give back.
Reglet,n., A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets, or other ornaments. See Illust. (12
Regnal,a., Of or pertaining to the reign of a monarch; as, regnal years. 
Regret,v., Pain of mind on account of something done or experienced in the past, with a wish that it had been different; a looking back with dissatisfaction or with longing; grief; sorrow; especially, a mourning on account of the loss of some joy, advantage, or satisfaction. 
Regrow,v. i. & t., To grow again.
Reguli,pl. , of Regulus
Rehash,v. t., To hash over again; to prepare or use again; as, to rehash old arguments. 
Rehear,v. t., To hear again; to try a second time; as, to rehear a cause in Chancery. 
Reheat,v. t., To heat again.
Rehire,v. t., To hire again.
Reigle,n., A hollow cut or channel for quiding anything; as, the reigle of a side post for a flood gate. 
Reined,imp. & p. p., of Rein
Reiter,n., A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.
Reiver,n., See Reaver.
Reject,v. t., To cast from one; to throw away; to discard.
Rejoin,v. t., To join again; to unite after separation.
Rejolt,n., A reacting jolt or shock; a rebound or recoil.
Relade,v. t., To lade or load again.
Relaid,, imp. & p. p. of Relay.
Relais,n., A narrow space between the foot of the rampart and the scarp of the ditch, serving to receive the earth that may crumble off or be washed down, and prevent its falling into the ditch. 
Reland,v. t., To land again; to put on land, as that which had been shipped or embarked. 
Relate,v. t., To bring back; to restore.
Relaid,imp. & p. p., of Relay
Relbun,n., The roots of the Chilian plant Calceolaria arachnoidea, -- used for dyeing crimson. 
Relent,v. i., To become less rigid or hard; to yield; to dissolve; to melt; to deliquesce.
Relict,n., A woman whose husband is dead; a widow.
Relief,n., The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; the removal, or partial removal, of any evil, or of anything oppressive or burdensome, by which some ease is obtained; succor; alleviation; comfort; ease; redress. 
Relier,n., One who relies.
Relish,v. t., To taste or eat with pleasure; to like the flavor of; to partake of with gratification; hence, to enjoy; to be pleased with or gratified by; to experience pleasure from; as, to relish food. 
Relive,v. i., To live again; to revive.
Reload,v. t., To load again, as a gun. 
Reloan,n., A second lending of the same thing; a renewal of a loan.
Relove,v. t., To love in return.
Reluct,v. i., To strive or struggle against anything; to make resistance; to draw back; to feel or show repugnance or reluctance.
Relume,v. t., To rekindle; to light again.
Relied,imp. & p. p., of Rely
Remade,, imp. & p. p. of Remake.
Remain,v. i., To stay behind while others withdraw; to be left after others have been removed or destroyed; to be left after a number or quantity has been subtracted or cut off; to be left as not included or comprised.
Remake,v. t., To make anew.
Remand,v. t., To recommit; to send back.
Remark,n., To mark in a notable manner; to distinquish clearly; to make noticeable or conspicuous; to piont out.
Remast,v. t., To furnish with a new mast or set of masts.
Remble,v. t., To remove.
Remean,v. t., To give meaning to; to explain the meaning of; to interpret.
Remede,n., Remedy.
Remedy,n., That which relieves or cures a disease; any medicine or application which puts an end to disease and restores health; -- with for; as, a remedy for the gout. 
Remelt,v. t., To melt again.
Remeve,v. t. & i., Alt. of Remewe
Remewe,v. t. & i., To remove.
Remind,v. t., To put (one
Remise,v. t., To send, give, or grant back; to release a claim to; to resign or surrender by deed; to return. 
Remiss,a., Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow. 
Remold,v. t., Alt. of Remould
Remora,n., Delay; obstacle; hindrance.
Remord,v. t., To excite to remorse; to rebuke.
Remote,superl., Removed to a distance; not near; far away; distant; -- said in respect to time or to place; as, remote ages; remote lands. 
Remove,v. t., To move away from the position occupied; to cause to change place; to displace; as, to remove a building. 
Rename,v. t., To give a new name to.
Renard,n., A fox; -- so called in fables or familiar tales, and in poetry. 
Renate,a., Born again; regenerate; renewed.
Render,n., One who rends.
Renege,v. t., To deny; to disown.
Reneye,v. t., To deny; to reject; to renounce.
Renner,n., A runner.
Rennet,n., A name of many different kinds of apples. Cf. Reinette.
Rennin,n., A milk-clotting enzyme obtained from the true stomach (abomasum
Renown,v., The state of being much known and talked of; exalted reputation derived from the extensive praise of great achievements or accomplishments; fame; celebrity; -- always in a good sense.
Rented,imp. & p. p., of Rent
Rental,n., A schedule, account, or list of rents, with the names of the tenants, etc.; a rent roll. 
Renter,n., One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lessee or tenant.
Renvoy,v. t., To send back.
Reopen,v. t. & i., To open again.
Repace,v. t., To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction.
Repack,v. t., To pack a second time or anew; as, to repack beef; to repack a trunk. 
Repaid,, imp. & p. p. of Repay.
Repair,v. i., To return.
Repand,a., Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves.
Repass,v. t., To pass again; to pass or travel over in the opposite direction; to pass a second time; as, to repass a bridge or a river; to repass the sea. 
Repast,n., The act of taking food.
Repaid,imp. & p. p., of Repay
Repeal,v. t., To recall; to summon again, as persons. 
Repeat,v. t., To go over again; to attempt, do, make, or utter again; to iterate; to recite; as, to repeat an effort, an order, or a poem. 
Repent,a., Prostrate and rooting; -- said of stems.
Repine,v. i., To fail; to wane.
Repkie,n., Any edible sea urchin.
Replum,n., The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains after the valves drop off. 
Repone,v. t., To replace.
Report,v. t., To refer.
Repose,v., To cause to stop or to rest after motion; hence, to deposit; to lay down; to lodge; to reposit. 
Repour,v. t., To pour again.
Repugn,v. t., To fight against; to oppose; to resist.
Repute,v. t., To hold in thought; to account; to estimate; to hold; to think; to reckon.
Requin,n., The man-eater, or white shark (Carcharodon carcharias
Resail,v. t. & i., To sail again; also, to sail back, as to a former port. 
Resale,n., A sale at second hand, or at retail; also, a second sale. 
Rescat,v. t., To ransom; to release; to rescue.
Rescue,v. t., To free or deliver from any confinement, violence, danger, or evil; to liberate from actual restraint; to remove or withdraw from a state of exposure to evil; as, to rescue a prisoner from the enemy; to rescue seamen from destruction. 
Reseat,v. t., To seat or set again, as on a chair, throne, etc. 
Resect,v. t., To cut or pare off; to remove by cutting.
Reseda,n., A genus of plants, the type of which is mignonette. 
Reseek,v. t., To seek again.
Resell,v. t., To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail.
Resend,v. t., To send again; as, to resend a message. 
Resent,v. t., To be sensible of; to feel
Reship,v. t., To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; to send on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise. 
Reside,v. i., To dwell permanently or for a considerable time; to have a settled abode for a time; to abide continuosly; to have one's domicile of home; to remain for a long time.
Resign,v. t., To sign back; to return by a formal act; to yield to another; to surrender; -- said especially of office or emolument. Hence, to give up; to yield; to submit; -- said of the wishes or will, or of something valued; -- also often used reflexively. 
Resile,v. i., To start back; to recoil; to recede from a purpose.
Resiny,a., Like resin; resinous.
Resist,v. t., To stand against; to withstand; to obstruct.
Resorb,v. t., To swallow up.
Resort,n., Active power or movement; spring.
Resoun,n., Reason.
Resown,v., To resound.
Rested,imp. & p. p., of Rest
Restem,v. t., To force back against the current; as, to restem their backward course. 
Result,v. i., To leap back; to rebound.
Resume,n., A summing up; a condensed statement; an abridgment or brief recapitulation.
Retail,v., The sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels; -- opposed to wholesale; sometimes, the sale of commodities at second hand. 
Retain,v. t., To continue to hold; to keep in possession; not to lose, part with, or dismiss; to retrain from departure, escape, or the like. 
Retake,v. t., To take or receive again.
Retard,v. t., To keep delaying; to continue to hinder; to prevent from progress; to render more slow in progress; to impede; to hinder; as, to retard the march of an army; to retard the motion of a ship; -- opposed to accelerate. 
Retell,v. t., To tell again.
Retene,n., A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene. It is extracted from pine tar, and is also found in certain fossil resins. 
Retent,n., That which is retained.
Rethor,n., A rhetorician; a careful writer.
Retina,n., The delicate membrane by which the back part of the globe of the eye is lined, and in which the fibers of the optic nerve terminate. See Eye. 
Retire,v. t., To withdraw; to take away; -- sometimes used reflexively.
Retold,, imp. & p. p. of Retell.
Retort,n., To bend or curve back; as, a retorted line. 
Retoss,v. t., To toss back or again.
Retrim,v. t., To trim again.
Retund,v. t., To blunt; to turn, as an edge; figuratively, to cause to be obtuse or dull; as, to retund confidence. 
Return,v. i., To turn back; to go or come again to the same place or condition.
Retuse,a., Having the end rounded and slightly indented; as, a retuse leaf. 
Reurge,v. t., To urge again.
Revamp,v. t., To vamp again; hence, to patch up; to reconstruct. 
Reveal,v. t., To make known (that which has been concealed or kept secret
Reverb,v. t., To echo.
Revere,v. t., To regard with reverence, or profound respect and affection, mingled with awe or fear; to venerate; to reverence; to honor in estimation. 
Revery,n., A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream.
Revert,v. t., To turn back, or to the contrary; to reverse. 
Revery,n., Same as Reverie.
Revest,v. t., To clothe again; to cover, as with a robe; to robe. 
Revict,v. t., To reconquer.
Review,n., To view or see again; to look back on.
Revile,v. t. & i., To address or abuse with opprobrious and contemptuous language; to reproach.
Revise,v. t., To look at again for the detection of errors; to reexamine; to review; to look over with care for correction; as, to revise a writing; to revise a translation. 
Revive,v. i., To return to life; to recover life or strength; to live anew; to become reanimated or reinvigorated.
Revoke,v. t., To call or bring back; to recall.
Revolt,n., To turn away; to abandon or reject something; specifically, to turn away, or shrink, with abhorrence. 
Rewake,v. t. & i., To wake again.
Reward,v. t., To give in return, whether good or evil; -- commonly in a good sense; to requite; to recompense; to repay; to compensate. 
Rewful,a., Rueful.
Reword,v. t., To repeat in the same words; to reecho.
Rh/tic,a., Pertaining to, or of the same horizon as, certain Mesozoic strata of the Rhetian Alps. These strata are regarded as closing the Triassic period. See the Chart of Geology. 
Rhaphe,n., The continuation of the seed stalk along the side of an anatropous ovule or seed, forming a ridge or seam. 
Rhesus,n., A monkey; the bhunder.
Rhetic,a., Same as Rhaetic.
Rhetor,n., A rhetorician.
Rheumy,a., Of or pertaining to rheum; abounding in, or causing, rheum; affected with rheum. 
Rhinal,a., Og or pertaining to the nose or olfactory organs.
Rhodic,a., Of or pertaining to rhodium; containing rhodium.
Rhusma,n., A mixtire of caustic lime and orpiment, or tersulphide of arsenic, -- used in the depilation of hides. 
Rhymed,imp. & p. p., of Rhyme
Rhymer,n., One who makes rhymes; a versifier; -- generally in contempt; a poor poet; a poetaster.
Rhymic,a., Pertaining to rhyme.
Rhythm,n., In the widest sense, a dividing into short portions by a regular succession of motions, impulses, sounds, accents, etc., producing an agreeable effect, as in music poetry, the dance, or the like. 
Ribbed,imp. & p. p., of Rib
Ribald,n./, A low, vulgar, brutal, foul-mouthed wretch; a lewd fellow. 
Riband,n., See Ribbon.
Ribaud,n., A ribald.
Ribbed,a., Furnished or formed with ribs; as, a ribbed cylinder; ribbed cloth. 
Ribbon,n., A fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes. 
Ribibe,n., A sort of stringed instrument; a rebec.
Riches,a., That which makes one rich; an abundance of land, goods, money, or other property; wealth; opulence; affluence. 
Richly,adv., In a rich manner.
Ricker,n., A stout pole for use in making a rick, or for a spar to a boat. 
Rictal,a., Of or pertaining to the rictus; as, rictal bristles. 
Rictus,n., The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth. 
Ridded,, of Rid
Ridden,, p. p. of Ride.
Ridder,n., One who, or that which, rids. 
Riddle,n., A sieve with coarse meshes, usually of wire, for separating coarser materials from finer, as chaff from grain, cinders from ashes, or gravel from sand. 
Ridden,p. p., of Ride
Riding,p. pr. & vb. n., of Ride
Rideau,n., A small mound of earth; ground slightly elevated; a small ridge.
Rident,a., Laughing.
Ridged,imp. & p. p., of Ridge
Ridgel,n., Same as Ridgelling.
Riding,n., One of the three jurisdictions into which the county of York, in England, is divided; -- formerly under the government of a reeve. They are called the North, the East, and the West, Riding. 
Riffle,n., A trough or sluice having cleats, grooves, or steps across the bottom for holding quicksilver and catching particles of gold when auriferous earth is washed; also, one of the cleats, grooves, or steps in such a trough. Also called ripple. 
Rifled,imp. & p. p., of Rifle
Rifler,n., One who rifles; a robber.
Rifted,imp. & p. p., of Rift
Rifter,n., A rafter.
Rigged,imp. & p. p., of Rig
Rigger,n., One who rigs or dresses; one whose occupation is to fit the rigging of a ship.
Riggle,v. i., See Wriggle.
Riglet,n., See Reglet.
Rigoll,n., A musical instrument formerly in use, consisting of several sticks bound together, but separated by beads, and played with a stick with a ball at its end. 
Riling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rile
Rillet,n., A little rill.
Rimmed,imp. & p. p., of Rim
Riming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rime
Rimmer,n., An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer. 
Rimose,a., Full of rimes, fissures, or chinks. 
Rimous,a., Rimose.
Rimple,n., A fold or wrinkle. See Rumple.
Rindle,n., A small water course or gutter.
Ringed,imp. & p. p., of Ring
Ringer,n., One who, or that which, rings; especially, one who rings chimes on bells. 
Rinker,n., One who skates at a rink.
Rinsed,imp. & p. p., of Rinse
Rinser,n., One who, or that which, rinses. 
Rioted,imp. & p. p., of Riot
Rioter,n., One who riots; a reveler; a roisterer.
Riotry,n., The act or practice of rioting; riot.
Ripped,imp. & p. p., of Rip
Ripely,adv., Maturely; at the fit time.
Ripler,n., Alt. of Ripper
Ripper,n., One who brings fish from the seacoast to markets in inland towns.
Ripost,n., In fencing, a return thrust after a parry. 
Ripper,n., One who, or that which, rips; a ripping tool. 
Ripple,v., An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing the seeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc. 
Ripply,a., Having ripples; as, ripply water; hence, resembling the sound of rippling water; as, ripply laughter; a ripply cove. 
Riprap,n., A foundation or sustaining wall of stones thrown together without order, as in deep water or on a soft bottom. 
Ripsaw,v. t., A handsaw with coarse teeth which have but a slight set, used for cutting wood in the direction of the fiber; -- called also ripping saw. 
Rising,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rise
Risked,imp. & p. p., of Risk
Risker,n., One who risks or hazards.
Ritual,a., Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service or sacrifices; the ritual law. 
Rivage,n., A bank, shore, or coast. 
Riving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rive
Rivery,a., Having rivers; as, a rivery country. 
Rivose,a., Marked with sinuate and irregular furrows.
Rizzar,v. t., To dry in the sun; as, rizzared haddock. 
Roamed,imp. & p. p., of Roam
Roamer,n., One who roams; a wanderer.
Roared,imp. & p. p., of Roar
Roarer,n., One who, or that which, roars. 
Robbed,imp. & p. p., of Rob
Roband,n., See Roperand.
Robber,n., One who robs; in law, one who feloniously takes goods or money from the person of another by violence or by putting him in fear. 
Robbin,n., A kind of package in which pepper and other dry commodities are sometimes exported from the East Indies. The robbin of rice in Malabar weighs about 84 pounds.
Robing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Robe
Robert,n., See Herb Robert, under Herb. 
Robing,n., The act of putting on a robe.
Robust,a., Evincing strength; indicating vigorous health; strong; sinewy; muscular; vigorous; sound; as, a robust body; robust youth; robust health. 
Rochet,n., A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrower sleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some other ecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies. 
Rocked,imp. & p. p., of Rock
Rocker,n., One who rocks; specifically, one who rocks a cradle. 
Rocket,n., A cruciferous plant (Eruca sativa
Rococo,n., A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe in the latter part of the eighteenth century.
Rodent,v. t., Gnawing; biting; corroding; (Med.
Roiled,imp. & p. p., of Roil
Rolled,imp. & p. p., of Roll
Roller,n., One who, or that which, rolls; especially, a cylinder, sometimes grooved, of wood, stone, metal, etc., used in husbandry and the arts. 
Rolley,n., A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine.
Rollic,v. i., To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking. 
Romage,n. & v., See Rummage.
Romaic,a., Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language. 
Romant,n., A romaunt.
Romany,n., A gypsy.
Romble,v.& n., Rumble.
Romish,a., Belonging or relating to Rome, or to the Roman Catholic Church; -- frequently used in a disparaging sense; as, the Romish church; the Romish religion, ritual, or ceremonies. 
Romist,n., A Roman Catholic.
Romped,imp. & p. p., of Romp
Rondel,n., A small round tower erected at the foot of a bastion.
Rondle,n., A rondeau.
Ronion,n., Alt. of Ronyon
Ronyon,n., A mangy or scabby creature.
Ronnen,, obs. p. p. of Renne, to run. 
Roofed,imp. & p. p., of Roof
Roofer,n., One who puts on roofs.
Rooked,imp. & p. p., of Rook
Roomed,imp. & p. p., of Room
Roomer,n., A lodger.
Roomth,n., Room; space.
Rooted,imp. & p. p., of Root
Rooter,n., One who, or that which, roots; one that tears up by the roots. 
Roping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rope
Ropery,n., A place where ropes are made.
Ropily,adv., In a ropy manner; in a viscous or glutinous manner.
Ropish,a., Somewhat ropy.
Roquet,v. t., To hit, as another's ball, with one's own ball. 
Rosary,n., A bed of roses, or place where roses grow. 
Roscid,a., Containing, or consisting of, dew; dewy. 
Roseal,a., resembling a rose in smell or color.
Rosery,n., A place where roses are cultivated; a nursery of roses. See Rosary, 1. 
Rosied,a., Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses. 
Rosier,n., A rosebush; roses, collectively. 
Rosily,adv., In a rosy manner.
Rosiny,a., like rosin, or having its qualities. 
Rossel,n., Light land; rosland.
Rostel,n., same as Rostellum.
Roster,n., A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve. 
Rostra,n. pl., See Rostrum, 2. 
Rotted,imp. & p. p., of Rot
Rotary,a., Turning, as a wheel on its axis; pertaining to, or resembling, the motion of a wheel on its axis; rotatory; as, rotary motion. 
Rotate,a., Having the parts spreading out like a wheel; wheel-shaped; as, a rotate spicule or scale; a rotate corolla, i.e., a monopetalous corolla with a flattish border, and no tube or a very short one. 
Rotche,n., A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle
Roting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rote
Rotgut,n., Bad small beer.
Rother,a., Bovine.
Rotten,a., Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rotten meat. 
Rotula,n., The patella, or kneepan. 
Rotund,a., Round; circular; spherical.
Rouble,n., A coin. See Ruble.
Rouche,n., See Ruche.
Rouged,imp. & p. p., of Rouge
Rought,, imp. of Reach.
Rounce,n., The handle by which the bed of a hand press, holding the form of type, etc., is run in under the platen and out again; -- sometimes applied to the whole apparatus by which the form is moved under the platen. 
Rouncy,n., A common hackney horse; a nag.
Roundy,a., Round.
Roused,imp. & p. p., of Rouse
Rouser,n., One who, or that which, rouses. 
Routed,imp. & p. p., of Rout
Router,n., A plane made like a spokeshave, for working the inside edges of circular sashes. 
Routhe,n., Ruth; sorrow.
Roving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rove
Rowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Row
Rowett,n., See Rowen.
Rubbed,imp. & p. p., of Rub
Rubato,a., Robbed; borrowed.
Rubber,n., One who, or that which, rubs. 
Rubble,n., Water-worn or rough broken stones; broken bricks, etc., used in coarse masonry, or to fill up between the facing courses of walls. 
Rubbly,a., Relating to, or containing, rubble. 
Rubian,n., One of several color-producing glycosides found in madder root.
Rubify,v. t., To redden.
Rubigo,n., same as Rust, n., 2. 
Rubric,n., That part of any work in the early manuscripts and typography which was colored red, to distinguish it from other portions. 
Rubies,pl. , of Ruby
Rubied,imp. & p. p., of Ruby
Rucked,imp. & p. p., of Ruck
Rudder,n., A riddle or sieve.
Ruddle,v. t., To raddle or twist.
Rudish,a., Somewhat rude.
Rudity,n., Rudeness; ignorance.
Rueful,a., Causing one to rue or lament; woeful; mournful; sorrowful.
Ruelle,n., A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle.
Ruffed,imp. & p. p., of Ruff
Ruffin,a., Disordered.
Ruffle,v. t., To make into a ruff; to draw or contract into puckers, plaits, or folds; to wrinkle. 
Rufous,a., Reddish; of a yellowish red or brownish red color; tawny.
Rugate,a., Having alternate ridges and depressions; wrinkled.
Rugged,n., Full of asperities on the surface; broken into sharp or irregular points, or otherwise uneven; not smooth; rough; as, a rugged mountain; a rugged road. 
Rugine,n., An instrument for scraping the periosteum from bones; a raspatory.
Rugosa,n. pl., An extinct tribe of fossil corals, including numerous species, many of them of large size. They are characteristic of the Paleozoic formations. The radiating septs, when present, are usually in multiples of four. See Cyathophylloid. 
Rugose,a., Wrinkled; full of wrinkles; specifically (Bot.
Rugous,a., Wrinkled; rugose.
Ruined,imp. & p. p., of Ruin
Ruiner,n., One who, or that which, ruins. 
Ruling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Rule
Rumble,v. i., To make a low, heavy, continued sound; as, the thunder rumbles at a distance. 
Rumkin,n., A popular or jocular name for a drinking vessel.
Rummer,n., A large and tall glass, or drinking cup. 
Rumney,n., A sort of Spanish wine.
Rumper,n., A member or a supporter of the Rump Parliament.
Rumple,v. t. & i., To make uneven; to form into irregular inequalities; to wrinkle; to crumple; as, to rumple an apron or a cravat. 
Rumply,a., Rumpled.
Rumpus,n., A disturbance; noise and confusion; a quarrel.
Rundel,n., A moat with water in it; also, a small stream; a runlet. 
Rundle,n., A round; a step of a ladder; a rung.
Runlet,n., A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook.
Runnel,n., A rivulet or small brook.
Runner,n., One who, or that which, runs; a racer. 
Runnet,n., See Rennet.
Runway,n., The channel of a stream.
Rupial,a., Of or pertaining to rupia.
Rushed,imp. & p. p., of Rush
Rusher,n., One who rushes.
Rusine,a., Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, which includes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis
Russet,a., Of a reddish brown color, or (by some called
Russia,n., A country of Europe and Asia.
Rusted,imp. & p. p., of Rust
Rustic,a., Of or pertaining to the country; rural; as, the rustic gods of antiquity. 
Rustle,v. i., To make a quick succession of small sounds, like the rubbing or moving of silk cloth or dry leaves. 
Rutted,imp. & p. p., of Rut
Rutate,n., A salt of rutic acid.
Rutile,n., A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals. In composition it is titanium dioxide, like octahedrite and brookite. 
Rutter,n., A horseman or trooper.
Ruttle,n., A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle.
Rytina,n., A genus of large edentulous sirenians, allied to the dugong and manatee, including but one species (R. Stelleri
Sabbat,n., In mediaeval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies. 
Sabean,a. & n., Same as Sabian.
Sabred,, of Sabre
Sabian,a., Of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants. 
Sabicu,n., The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysiloma Sabicu
Sabine,a., Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy. 
Sabled,imp. & p. p., of Sable
Saccus,n., A sac.
Sachel,n., A small bag.
Sachem,n., A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore.
Sachet,n., A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefs, garments, etc., to perfume them. 
Sacked,imp. & p. p., of Sack
Sacker,n., One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town.
Sacque,n., Same as 2d Sack, 3. 
Sacral,a., Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.
Sacred,a., Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service. 
Sacrum,n., That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis. 
Sadden,v. t., To make sad.
Sadder,n., Same as Sadda.
Saddle,n., A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also, a seat for the rider on a bicycle or tricycle. 
Safely,adv., In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences. 
Safety,n., The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss. 
Sagged,imp. & p. p., of Sag
Sagely,adv., In a sage manner; wisely.
Sagene,n., A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.
Sagger,n., A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a seggar. 
Sagoin,n., A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.
Saikyr,n., Same as Saker.
Sailed,imp. & p. p., of Sail
Sailer,n., A sailor.
Sailor,n., One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.
Saimir,n., The squirrel monkey.
Saithe,n., The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock. 
Sajene,n., Same as Sagene.
Salaam,n., Same as Salam.
Salade,n., A helmet. See Sallet.
Salary,a., Saline
Salian,a., Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.
Salify,v. t., To combine or impregnate with a salt.
Salina,a., A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea. 
Saline,a., Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles; saline substances; a saline cathartic. 
Salite,v. t., To season with salt; to salt.
Saliva,n., The secretion from the salivary glands.
Sallet,n., A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century. 
Sallow,n., The willow; willow twigs.
Salmis,n., A ragout of partly roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite. 
Salmon,pl. , of Salmon
Saloon,n., A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon of a steamboat. 
Saloop,n., An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London. 
Salpae,pl. , of Salpa
Salpas,pl. , of Salpa
Salpid,n., A salpa.
Salted,imp. & p. p., of Salt
Salter,n., One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish. 
Saltle,n., The European dab.
Saltly,adv., With taste of salt; in a salt manner.
Salute,v. t., To address, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to greet; to hail. 
Salved,imp. & p. p., of Salve
Salver,n., One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack. 
Salvia,n., A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.
Salvos,pl. , of Salvo
Salvor,n., One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so. 
Samara,n., A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit. 
Samare,n., See Simar.
Samboo,n., Same as Sambur.
Sambur,n., An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis
Samian,a., Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.
Samiel,n., A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the kamsin of Syria. 
Samiot,a. & n., Samian.
Samite,a., A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold. 
Samlet,n., The parr.
Samoan,a., Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands
Sampan,n., A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters. 
Sample,n., Example; pattern.
Samshu,n., A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure.
Samson,n., An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.
Sancte,n., See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus. 
Sanded,imp. & p. p., of Sand
Sandal,n., Same as Sendal.
Sanded,a., Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren.
Sandix,n., A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium. 
Sandre,n., A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre
Sandyx,n., See Sandix.
Sanies,n., A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds. 
Sanity,n., The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness. 
Sanjak,n., A district or a subvision of a vilayet.
Sankha,n., A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum
Sannop,n., Same as Sannup.
Sannup,n., A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.
Santal,n., A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood. 
Santer,v. i., See Saunter.
Santon,n., A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a saint: also, a hermit. 
Sapped,imp. & p. p., of Sap
Sapajo,n., The sapajou.
Sapful,a., Abounding in sap; sappy.
Sapota,n., The sapodilla.
Sappan,, Sapan wood.
Sapper,n., One who saps; specifically (Mil.
Sappho,n., Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply forked tails; -- called also firetail. 
Sarcel,n., One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird, esp. of a hawk. 
Sarcin,n., Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarcle,v. t., To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe. 
Sardan,n., Alt. of Sardel
Sardel,n., A sardine.
Sarkin,n., Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarlac,n., Alt. of Sarlyk
Sarlyk,n., The yak.
Sarong,n., A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay Archipelago.
Sarsen,n., One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone. 
Sashed,imp. & p. p., of Sash
Sastra,n., Same as Shaster.
Sating,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sate
Sateen,n., A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy surface resembling satin. 
Satiny,a., Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny appearance; a satiny texture. 
Sation,n., A sowing or planting.
Satire,a., A composition, generally poetical, holding up vice or folly to reprobation; a keen or severe exposure of what in public or private morals deserves rebuke; an invective poem; as, the Satires of Juvenal. 
Sative,a., Sown; propagated by seed.
Satrap,n., The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty autocrat despot. 
Saturn,n., One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and Terra (Heaven and Earth
Sauced,imp. & p. p., of Sauce
Saucer,n., A small pan or vessel in which sauce was set on a table.
Saufly,adv., Safely.
Sauger,n., An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense
Saulie,n., A hired mourner at a funeral.
Saurel,n., Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T. trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of California. Called also skipjack, and horse mackerel. 
Sauria,n. pl., A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups. By some writers the name is restricted to the Lacertilia. 
Sauter,v. t., To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning or tossing it over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat. 
Savage,a., Of or pertaining to the forest; remote from human abodes and cultivation; in a state of nature; wild; as, a savage wilderness. 
Savant,a., A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements.
Saving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Save
Savely,adv., Safely.
Savine,n., A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina
Saving,a., Preserving; rescuing.
Savior,v., One who saves, preserves, or delivers from destruction or danger. 
Savory,a., Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell.
Sawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Saw
Sawder,n., A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder.
Sawfly,n., Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidae. The female usually has an ovipositor containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larvae resemble those of Lepidoptera.
Sawneb,n., A merganser.
Sawtry,n., A psaltery.
Sawyer,n., One whose occupation is to saw timber into planks or boards, or to saw wood for fuel; a sawer. 
Saying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Say
Sayman,n., One who assays.
Scabby,superl., Affected with scabs; full of scabs.
Scalae,pl. , of Scala
Scalar,n., In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both magnitude and direction. 
Scaled,imp. & p. p., of Scale
Scaler,n., One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth. 
Scanty,a., Wanting amplitude or extent; narrow; small; not abundant.
Scaped,imp. & p. p., of Scape
Scapus,n., See 1st Scape.
Scarab,n., Alt. of Scarabee
Scarce,superl., Not plentiful or abundant; in small quantity in proportion to the demand; not easily to be procured; rare; uncommon.
Scared,imp. & p. p., of Scare
Scarfs,pl. , of Scarf
Scarry,a., Bearing scars or marks of wounds.
Scarus,n., A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus
Scatch,n., A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth.
Scathe,v. t., Alt. of Scath
Scazon,n., A choliamb.
Scelet,n., A mummy; a skeleton.
Scenic,a., Alt. of Scenical
Schade,n., Shade; shadow.
Scheik,n., See Sheik.
Schema,n., An outline or image universally applicable to a general conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as, five dots in a line are a schema of the number five; a preceding and succeeding event are a schema of cause and effect. 
Scheme,n., A combination of things connected and adjusted by design; a system.
Schene,n., An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirty-two to sixty stadia. 
Schism,n., Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.
Schist,n., Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see Foliation
Scholy,n., A scholium.
School,n., A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish. 
Schorl,n., Black tourmaline.
Scient,a., Knowing; skillful.
Scious,a., Knowing; having knowledge.
Sclave,n., Same as Slav.
Scobby,n., The chaffinch.
Scolay,v. i., See Scoley.
Scolex,n., The embryo produced directly from the egg in a metagenetic series, especially the larva of a tapeworm or other parasitic worm. See Illust. of Echinococcus. 
Scoley,v. i., To go to school; to study.
Sconce,p. p., A fortification, or work for defense; a fort. 
Scorce,n., Barter.
Scorch,v. t., To burn superficially; to parch, or shrivel, the surface of, by heat; to subject to so much heat as changes color and texture without consuming; as, to scorch linen. 
Scored,imp. & p. p., of Score
Scorer,n., One who, or that which, scores. 
Scoria,n., The recrement of metals in fusion, or the slag rejected after the reduction of metallic ores; dross. 
Scorie,n., The young of any gull.
Scorny,a., Deserving scorn; paltry.
Scorse,n., Barter; exchange; trade.
Scotal,n., Alt. of Scotale
Scotch,a., Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish. 
Scoter,n., Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus Oidemia.
Scotia,n., A concave molding used especially in classical architecture.
Scouse,n., A sailor's dish. Bread scouse contains no meat; lobscouse contains meat, etc. See Lobscouse. 
Scovel,n., A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin.
Scrape,v. t., To rub over the surface of (something
Scrawl,v. i., See Crawl.
Screak,v., To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak, as a door or wheel. 
Scream,v. i., To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech. 
Screed,n., A strip of plaster of the thickness proposed for the coat, applied to the wall at intervals of four or five feet, as a guide. 
Screen,n., Anything that separates or cuts off inconvenience, injury, or danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or protection; as, a fire screen. 
Scribe,n., One who writes; a draughtsman; a writer for another; especially, an offical or public writer; an amanuensis or secretary; a notary; a copyist. 
Scrimp,v. t., To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat. 
Scrine,n., A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or curiosities are deposited; a shrine. 
Script,n., A writing; a written document.
Scrode,n., A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed. 
Scroll,n., A roll of paper or parchment; a writing formed into a roll; a schedule; a list.
Scruff,n., Scurf.
Scruze,v. t., To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise. 
Scummy,a., Covered with scum; of the nature of scum.
Scurff,n., The bull trout.
Scurfy,superl., Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling scurf.
Scurry,v. i., To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away. 
Scurvy,n., Covered or affected with scurf or scabs; scabby; scurfy; specifically, diseased with the scurvy. 
Scutal,a., Of or pertaining to a shield.
Scutch,v. t., To beat or whip; to drub.
Scutum,n., An oblong shield made of boards or wickerwork covered with leather, with sometimes an iron rim; -- carried chiefly by the heavy-armed infantry. 
Scylla,n., A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical literature as ravenous monsters. The passage between them was formerly considered perilous; hence, the saying   Between Scylla and Charybdis,   signifying a great peril on either hand. 
Scypha,n., See Scyphus, 2 (b
Scyphi,pl. , of Scyphus
Scythe,n., An instrument for mowing grass, grain, or the like, by hand, composed of a long, curving blade, with a sharp edge, made fast to a long handle, called a snath, which is bent into a form convenient for use. 
Sdeign,v. t., To disdain.
Sealed,imp. & p. p., of Seal
Sealer,n., One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like. 
Sealgh,n., Alt. of Selch
Seamed,imp. & p. p., of Seam
Seamen,pl. , of Seaman
Seaman,n., A merman; the male of the mermaid.
Seamen,pl. , of Seaman
Seaman,n., One whose occupation is to assist in the management of ships at sea; a mariner; a sailor; -- applied both to officers and common mariners, but especially to the latter. Opposed to landman, or landsman. 
Seamed,a., Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk.
Seance,n., A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called. 
Seapoy,n., See Sepoy.
Seared,imp. & p. p., of Sear
Searce,n., A fine sieve.
Search,v. t., To look over or through, for the purpose of finding something; to examine; to explore; as, to search the city. 
Seared,a., Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not susceptible to moral influences. 
Season,n., One of the divisions of the year, marked by alternations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons, namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized. Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy, and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy. 
Seated,imp. & p. p., of Seat
Seawan,n., Alt. of Seawant
Sebate,n., A salt of sebacic acid.
Secale,n., A genus of cereal grasses including rye.
Secant,a., Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line. 
Secede,v. i., To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire; especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body. 
Secern,v. t., To separate; to distinguish.
Secess,n., Retirement; retreat; secession.
Seckel,n., A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear. It originated on a farm near Philadelphia, afterwards owned by a Mr. Seckel. 
Second,a., Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other. 
Secret,a., Hidden; concealed; as, secret treasure; secret plans; a secret vow. 
Sector,n., A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc.
Secund,a., Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk. 
Secure,a., Free from fear, care, or anxiety; easy in mind; not feeling suspicion or distrust; confident. 
Sedate,a., Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or temper. 
Sedent,a., Sitting; inactive; quiet.
Sedged,a., Made or composed of sedge.
Seduce,v. t., To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner; to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to corrupt.
Seeing,p. pr. & vb. n., of See
Seeded,imp. & p. p., of Seed
Seeder,n., One who, or that which, sows or plants seed. 
Seeing,conj. ,
Sought,imp. & p. p., of Seek
Seeker,n., One who seeks; that which is used in seeking or searching.
Seeled,imp. & p. p., of Seel
Seemed,imp. & p. p., of Seem
Seemer,n., One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or semblance.
Seemly,v. i., Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous. 
Sipage,n., Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil.
Seesaw,n., A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately up and down. 
Sodden,, of Seethe
Seethe,n., To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh. 
Seggar,n., A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is inclosed while baking in the kin. 
Seiner,n., One who fishes with a seine.
Seisin,n., See Seizin.
Seized,imp. & p. p., of Seize
Seizer,n., One who, or that which, seizes. 
Seizin,n., Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession, the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership. 
Seizor,n., One who seizes, or takes possession. 
Sejant,a., Alt. of Sejeant
Sejein,v. t., To separate.
Selden,adv., Seldom.
Seldem,superl, Rarely; not often; not frequently.
Seldom,a., Rare; infrequent.
Select,a., Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely chosen; selected; choice.
Selves,pl. , of Self
Selion,n., A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows. 
Seller,n., One who sells.
Selves,n., pl. of Self.
Semble,a., To imitate; to make a representation or likeness.
Semele,n., A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus. 
Semina,pl. , of Semen
Semita,n., A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin.
Semite,n., One belonging to the Semitic race. Also used adjectively.
Sempre,adv., Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft. 
Senary,a., Of six; belonging to six; containing six.
Senate,n., An assembly or council having the highest deliberative and legislative functions.
Sendal,n., A light thin stuff of silk.
Sender,n., One who sends.
Senega,n., Seneca root.
Senile,a., Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile weakness. 
Senior,a., More advanced than another in age; prior in age; elder; hence, more advanced in dignity, rank, or office; superior; as, senior member; senior counsel. 
Sennet,n., A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on the stage.
Sennit,n., A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff.
Se?ora,n., A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady. 
Sensed,imp. & p. p., of Sense
Sensor,a., Sensory; as, the sensor nerves. 
Sentry,n., A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.
Sepawn,n., See Supawn.
Sephen,n., A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. The skin is an article of commerce. 
Sepias,pl. , of Sepia
Sepiae,pl. , of Sepia
Sepose,v. t., To set apart.
Sepsin,n., A soluble poison (ptomaine
Sepsis,n., The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent material into the blood.
Septal,a., Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a shell. 
Septet,n., Alt. of Septette
Septic,a., Of the seventh degree or order.
Septum,n., A wall separating two cavities; a partition; as, the nasal septum. 
Sequel,n., That which follows; a succeeding part; continuation; as, the sequel of a man's advantures or history. 
Sequin,n., An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck at Venice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the other Italian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey. It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The different kinds vary somewhat in value. 
Serang,n., The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew.
Serape,n., A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish Americans, as in Mexico. 
Seraph,n., One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of wings. In ecclesiastical art and in poetry, a seraph is represented as one of a class of angels. 
Serein,n., A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear sky a few moments after sunset. 
Serene,a., Bright; clear; unabscured; as, a serene sky. 
Serial,a., Of or pertaining to a series; consisting of a series; appearing in successive parts or numbers; as, a serial work or publication. 
Series,n., A number of things or events standing or succeeding in order, and connected by a like relation; sequence; order; course; a succession of things; as, a continuous series of calamitous events. 
Serine,n., A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.
Seriph,n., See Ceriph.
Sermon,n., A discourse or address; a talk; a writing; as, the sermons of Chaucer. 
Seroon,n., Same as Ceroon.
Serose,a., Serous.
Serous,a., Thin; watery; like serum; as the serous fluids.
Surrow,n., The thar.
Serpet,n., A basket.
Serval,n., An African wild cat (Felis serval
Served,imp. & p. p., of Serve
Server,n., One who serves.
Sesame,n., Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S. Indicum, and S. orientale
Sesban,n., A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata
Sestet,n., A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor.
Sethen,adv. & conj., See Since.
Sethic,a., See Sothic.
Setose,a., Alt. of Setous
Setous,a., Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs.
Setout,n., A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed. 
Settee,n., A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once. 
Setter,n., One who, or that which, sets; -- used mostly in composition with a noun, as typesetter; or in combination with an adverb, as a setter on (or inciter
Settle,n., A seat of any kind.
Setula,n., A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta. 
Setule,n., A setula.
Severe,superl., Serious in feeeling or manner; sedate; grave; austere; not light, lively, or cheerful. 
Severy,n., A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling.
Sevres,, A very light blue.
Sewing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sew
Sewage,n., The contents of a sewer or drain; refuse liquids or matter carried off by sewers
Sewing,n., The act or occupation of one who sews.
Sexfid,a., Alt. of Sexifid
Sextet,n., Alt. of Sextetto
Sextic,a., Of the sixth degree or order.
Sextos,pl. , of Sexto
Sexton,n., An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman, and to perform other duties pertaining to the church, such as to dig graves, ring the bell, etc. 
Sextry,n., See Sacristy.
Sexual,a., Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex; peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or based upon, sex; as, sexual characteristics; sexual intercourse, connection, or commerce; sexual desire; sexual diseases; sexual generation. 
Shabby,n., Torn or worn to rage; poor; mean; ragged.
Shadde,, obs. imp. of Shed.
Shaded,imp. & p. p., of Shade
Shader,n., One who, or that which, shades. 
Shadow,n., Shade within defined limits; obscurity or deprivation of light, apparent on a surface, and representing the form of the body which intercepts the rays of light; as, the shadow of a man, of a tree, or of a tower. See the Note under Shade, n., 1. 
Shaggy,n., Rough with long hair or wool.
Shahin,n., A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator
Shaken,p. p., of Shake
Shaker,n., A person or thing that shakes, or by means of which something is shaken. 
Should,imp., of Shall
Shalli,n., See Challis.
Shaman,n., A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists.
Shamed,imp. & p. p., of Shame
Shamer,n., One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed. 
Shammy,n., The chamois.
Shamoy,n., See Shammy.
Shanny,n., The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis
Shan't,, A contraction of shall not.
Shanty,a., Jaunty; showy.
Shaped,imp., of Shape
Shapen,, of Shape
Shaper,n., One who shapes; as, the shaper of one's fortunes. 
Shapoo,n., The oorial.
Shardy,a., Having, or consisting of, shards. 
Shared,imp. & p. p., of Share
Sharer,n., One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a distributer. 
Shaved,imp., of Shave
Shaven,, of Shave
Shaver,n., One who shaves; one whose occupation is to shave.
Sheafy,a., Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling a sheaf. 
Sheard,n., See Shard.
Shearn,n., Dung; excrement.
Shears,n., A cutting instrument.
Sheath,n., A case for the reception of a sword, hunting knife, or other long and slender instrument; a scabbard. 
Sheave,v., A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley. 
Shelfa,n., Alt. of Shilfa
Shilfa,n., The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note.
Sheely,n., Same as Sheelfa.
Sheeny,a., Bright; shining; radiant; sheen.
Sheepy,a., Resembling sheep; sheepish.
Shekel,n., An ancient weight and coin used by the Jews and by other nations of the same stock.
Shelfy,a., Abounding in shelves; full of dangerous shallows.
Shelly,a., Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell. 
Shelty,n., A Shetland pony.
Shelve,v. t., To furnish with shelves; as, to shelve a closet or a library. 
Shelvy,a., Sloping gradually; shelving.
Shepen,n., A stable; a shippen.
Sherif,n., A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima. The Grand Shereef is the governor of Mecca.
Sherry,n., A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by mixing with it cheap wine boiled down. 
Shette,, of Shet
Shewel,n., A scarecrow.
Shewer,n., One who shews. See Shower.
Shield,n., A broad piece of defensive armor, carried on the arm, -- formerly in general use in war, for the protection of the body. See Buckler. 
Shifty,a., Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance. 
Shiite,n., Alt. of Shiah
Shiloh,n., A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as   the Messiah,   or as the city   Shiloh,   or as   Rest.   
Shimmy,n., A chemise.
Shindy,n., An uproar or disturbance; a spree; a row; a riot.
Shined,, of Shine
Shiner,n., That which shines.
Shinto,n., Alt. of Shintiism
Shinty,n., A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the game. 
Shiraz,n., A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought.
Shirky,a., Disposed to shirk.
Shiver,n., One of the small pieces, or splinters, into which a brittle thing is broken by sudden violence; -- generally used in the plural. 
Shoaly,a., Full of shoals, or shallow places. 
Shoddy,v. t., A fibrous material obtained by   deviling,   or tearing into fibers, refuse woolen goods, old stockings, rags, druggets, etc. See Mungo. 
Shoder,n., A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to the second process of beating.
Shogun,n., A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation of power the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons
Shonde,n., Harm; disgrace; shame.
Shooty,a., Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly.
Shopen,, p. p. of Shape.
Shoppy,a., Abounding with shops.
Shored,imp. & p. p., of Shore
Shorer,n., One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore. 
Shough,n., A shockdog.
Should,imp., Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall
Shoved,imp. & p. p., of Shove
Shovel,v. t., An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth, coal, grain, or other loose substances. 
Shoven,, p. p. of Shove.
Showed,imp., of Show
Shower,n., One who shows or exhibits.
Shrank,, imp. of Shrink.
Shrape,n., A place baited with chaff to entice birds.
Shrewd,superl., Inclining to shrew; disposing to curse or scold; hence, vicious; malicious; evil; wicked; mischievous; vexatious; rough; unfair; shrewish. 
Shriek,v. i., To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish. 
Shrift,n., The act of shriving.
Shrike,v. i., Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family Laniidae, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip. Most shrikes are insectivorous, but the common European gray shrike (Lanius excubitor
Shrill,v. i., Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing tone or sound; -- said of a sound, or of that which produces a sound. 
Shrimp,v. t., To contract; to shrink.
Shrine,n., A case, box, or receptacle, especially one in which are deposited sacred relics, as the bones of a saint. 
Shrank,imp., of Shrink
Shrunk,, of Shrink
Shrink,v. i., To wrinkle, bend, or curl; to shrivel; hence, to contract into a less extent or compass; to gather together; to become compacted. 
Shrove,, of Shrive
Shrive,v. t., To hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.
Shroff,n., A banker, or changer of money. 
Shrood,v. t., To trim; to lop.
Shroud,n., That which clothes, covers, conceals, or protects; a garment. 
Shrove,, imp. of Shrive.
Shrowd,v. t., See Shrood.
Shruff,n., Rubbish. Specifically: (a
Shumac,n., Sumac.
Shying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Shy
Sicken,v. t., To make sick; to disease.
Sicker,v. i., To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack. 
Sickle,n., A reaping instrument consisting of a steel blade curved into the form of a hook, and having a handle fitted on a tang. The sickle has one side of the blade notched, so as always to sharpen with a serrated edge. Cf. Reaping hook, under Reap. 
Sickly,superl., Somewhat sick; disposed to illness; attended with disease; as, a sickly body. 
Siddow,a., Soft; pulpy.
Siding,p. pr.& vb. n., of Side
Sidled,imp. & p. p., of Sidle
Sienna,n., Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or manganese, and used as a pigment. It is used either in the raw state or burnt. 
Sierra,n., A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada. 
Siesta,n., A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after dinner; a midday nap. 
Sifted,imp. & p. p., of Sift
Sifter,n., One who, or that which, sifts. 
Sigger,v. i., Same as
Sighed,imp. & p. p., of Sigh
Sigher,n., One who sighs.
Sigmas,pl. , of Sigma
Signed,imp. & p. p., of Sign
Signal,n., A sign made for the purpose of giving notice to a person of some occurence, command, or danger; also, a sign, event, or watchword, which has been agreed upon as the occasion of concerted action. 
Signer,n., One who signs or subscribes his name; as, a memorial with a hundred signers. 
Signet,n., A seal; especially, in England, the seal used by the sovereign in sealing private letters and grants that pass by bill under the sign manual; -- called also privy signet. 
Signor,n., Alt. of Signore
Silage,n. & v., Short for Ensilage.
Silene,n., A genus of caryophyllaceous plants, usually covered with a viscid secretion by which insects are caught; catchfly. 
Silent,a., Free from sound or noise; absolutely still; perfectly quiet.
Silica,n., Silicon dioxide, SiO/. It constitutes ordinary quartz (also opal and tridymite
Siling,, a. & n. from Sile to strain.
Silken,a., Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; as, silken cloth; a silken veil. 
Siller,n., Silver.
Sillon,n., A work raised in the middle of a wide ditch, to defend it. 
Silted,imp. & p. p., of Silt
Silure,n., A fish of the genus Silurus, as the sheatfish; a siluroid. 
Silvas,pl. , of Silva
Silvae,pl. , of Silva
Silvan,a., Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody.
Silvas,n. pl., Alt. of Selvas
Selvas,n. pl., Vast woodland plains of South America.
Silver,n., A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish. It is found native, and also combined with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, chlorine, etc., in the minerals argentite, proustite, pyrargyrite, ceragyrite, etc. Silver is one of the   noble   metals, so-called, not being easily oxidized, and is used for coin, jewelry, plate, and a great variety of articles. Symbol Ag (Argentum
Simial,a., Simian; apelike.
Simian,a., Of or pertaining to the family Simiadae, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike. 
Simile,n., A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or imaginative comparison. 
Simmer,v. i., To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil. 
Simnel,n., A kind of cake made of fine flour; a cracknel.
Simony,n., The crime of buying or selling ecclesiastical preferment; the corrupt presentation of any one to an ecclesiastical benefice for money or reward.
Simoom,n., Alt. of Simoon
Simoon,n., A hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains. 
Simous,a., Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up. 
Simpai,n., A long-tailed monkey (Semnopitchecus melalophus
Simper,v. i., To smile in a silly, affected, or conceited manner. 
Simple,a., Single; not complex; not infolded or entangled; uncombined; not compounded; not blended with something else; not complicated; as, a simple substance; a simple idea; a simple sound; a simple machine; a simple problem; simple tasks. 
Simply,adv., In a simple manner or state; considered in or by itself; without addition; along; merely; solely; barely.
Sinned,imp. & p. p., of Sin
Sinaic,a., Alt. of Sinaitic
Sindon,n., A wrapper.
Sinewy,a., Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, a sinew or sinews. 
Sinful,a., Tainted with, or full of, sin; wicked; iniquitous; criminal; unholy; as, sinful men; sinful thoughts. 
Singed,imp. & p. p., of Singe
Singer,n., One who, or that which, singes. 
Single,a., One only, as distinguished from more than one; consisting of one alone; individual; separate; as, a single star. 
Singly,adv., Individually; particularly; severally; as, to make men singly and personally good. 
Sunken,, of Sink
Sinker,n., One who, or that which, sinks. 
Sinner,n., One who has sinned; especially, one who has sinned without repenting; hence, a persistent and incorrigible transgressor; one condemned by the law of God. 
Sinnet,n., See Sennit .
Sinque,n., See Cinque.
Sinter,n., Dross, as of iron; the scale which files from iron when hammered; -- applied as a name to various minerals. 
Sintoc,n., A kind of spice used in the East Indies, consisting of the bark of a species of Cinnamomum. 
Sipped,imp. & p. p., of Sip
Sipage,n., See Seepage.
Siphon,n., A device, consisting of a pipe or tube bent so as to form two branches or legs of unequal length, by which a liquid can be transferred to a lower level, as from one vessel to another, over an intermediate elevation, by the action of the pressure of the atmosphere in forcing the liquid up the shorter branch of the pipe immersed in it, while the continued excess of weight of the liquid in the longer branch (when once filled
Sipper,n., One whi sips.
Sippet,n., A small sop; a small, thin piece of toasted bread soaked in milk, broth, or the like; a small piece of toasted or fried bread cut into some special shape and used for garnishing. 
Sipple,v. i., To sip often.
Sircar,n., A Hindoo clerk or accountant.
Sirdar,n., A native chief in Hindostan; a headman.
Siring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sire
Sirene,n., See Siren, 6. 
Sirius,n., The Dog Star. See Dog Star.
Sirrah,n., A term of address implying inferiority and used in anger, contempt, reproach, or disrespectful familiarity, addressed to a man or boy, but sometimes to a woman. In sililoquies often preceded by ah. Not used in the plural. 
Sirupy,a., Alt. of Syrupy
Syrupy,a., Like sirup, or partaking of its qualities. 
Siskin,n., A small green and yellow European finch (Spinus spinus, or Carduelis spinus
Sissoo,n., A leguminous tree (Dalbergia Sissoo
Sister,n., A female who has the same parents with another person, or who has one of them only. In the latter case, she is more definitely called a half sister. The correlative of brother. 
Sitten,, of Sit
Sithed,a., Scythed.
Sithen,adv. & conj., Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith.
Sitten,, p. p. of Sit, for sat. 
Sitter,n., One who sits; esp., one who sits for a portrait or a bust. 
Sizing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Size
Sizzle,v. i., To make a hissing sound; to fry, or to dry and shrivel up, with a hissing sound. 
Skaith,n., See Scatch.
Skated,imp. & p. p., of Skate
Skater,n., One who skates.
Skatol,n., A constituent of human faeces formed in the small intestines as a product of the putrefaction of albuminous matter. It is also found in reduced indigo. Chemically it is methyl indol, C9H9N. 
Skeine,n., See Skean.
Skelet,n., A skeleton. See Scelet.
Skelly,v. i., To squint.
Skerry,n., A rocky isle; an insulated rock.
Sketch,n., An outline or general delineation of anything; a first rough or incomplete draught or plan of any design; especially, in the fine arts, such a representation of an object or scene as serves the artist's purpose by recording its chief features; also, a preliminary study for an original work. 
Skewed,imp. & p. p., of Skew
Skewer,n., A pin of wood or metal for fastening meat to a spit, or for keeping it in form while roasting. 
Skilts,n. pl., A kind of large, coarse, short trousers formerly worn. 
Skilty,n., The water rail.
Skinch,v. t. & i., To give scant measure; to squeeze or pinch in order to effect a saving.
Skinny,a., Consisting, or chiefly consisting, of skin; wanting flesh. 
Skitty,n., A rail; as, the water rail (called also skitty cock, and skitty coot
Skiver,n., An inferior quality of leather, made of split sheepskin, tanned by immersion in sumac, and dyed. It is used for hat linings, pocketbooks, bookbinding, etc. 
Sklere,v. t., To shelter; to cover.
Skonce,n., See Sconce.
Skreen,n. & v., See Screen.
Skrike,v. i. & t., To shriek.
Skrimp,v. t., See Scrimp.
Skrite,n., The skrike.
Skurry,n. & v., See Scurry.
Skying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sky
Skyish,a., Like the sky, or approaching the sky; lofty; ethereal. 
Slabby,a., Thick; viscous.
Slaggy,a., Of or pertaining to slag; resembling slag; as, slaggy cobalt. 
Slaked,imp. & p. p., of Slake
Slakin,n., Slacken.
Slangy,a., Of or pertaining to slang; of the nature of slang; disposed to use slang.
Slashy,a., Wet and dirty; slushy.
Slatch,n., The period of a transitory breeze.
Slated,imp. & p. p., of Slate
Slater,n., One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings. 
Slaved,imp. & p. p., of Slave
Slaver,n., A vessel engaged in the slave trade; a slave ship.
Slavey,n., A maidservant.
Slavic,a., Slavonic.
Slawen,, p. p. of Slee, to slay. 
Slayer,n., One who slays; a killer; a murderer; a destrroyer of life.
Sleave,n., The knotted or entangled part of silk or thread.
Sleazy,a., Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as, sleazy silk or muslin. 
Sledge,n., A strong vehicle with low runners or low wheels; or one without wheels or runners, made of plank slightly turned up at one end, used for transporting loads upon the snow, ice, or bare ground; a sled. 
Sleeky,a., Of a sleek, or smooth, and glossy appearance. 
Sleepy,n., Drowsy; inclined to, or overcome by, sleep. 
Sleety,a., Of or pertaining to sleet; characterized by sleet; as, a sleety storm; sleety weather. 
Sleeve,n., See Sleave, untwisted thread. 
Sleigh,a., Sly.
Slepez,n., A burrowing rodent (Spalax typhlus
Sleuth,n., The track of man or beast as followed by the scent.
Slewed,a., Somewhat drunk.
Slewth,n., Sloth; idleness.
Sliced,imp. & p. p., of Slice
Slicer,n., One who, or that which, slices; specifically, the circular saw of the lapidary. 
Slider,a., See Slidder.
Slight,n., Sleight.
Slimed,imp. & p. p., of Slime
Slimly,adv., In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly.
Slimsy,a., Flimsy; frail.
Slinky,a., Thin; lank.
Slipes,v., Sledge runners on which a skip is dragged in a mine.
Slippy,a., Slippery.
Sliver,v. t., To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into very small pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood. 
Slogan,n., The war cry, or gathering word, of a Highland clan in Scotland; hence, any rallying cry. 
Sloggy,a., Sluggish.
Sloomy,a., Sluggish; slow.
Sloped,imp. & p. p., of Slope
Sloppy,superl., Wet, so as to spatter easily; wet, as with something slopped over; muddy; plashy; as, a sloppy place, walk, road. 
Sloshy,, See Slush, Slushy. 
Slouch,n., A hanging down of the head; a drooping attitude; a limp appearance; an ungainly, clownish gait; a sidewise depression or hanging down, as of a hat brim. 
Slough,a., Slow.
Sloven,n., A man or boy habitually negligent of neathess and order; -- the correlative term to slattern, or slut. 
Slowed,imp. & p. p., of Slow
Slowly,adv., In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not rashly; not readly; tardly.
Sludge,n., Mud; mire; soft mud; slush.
Sluing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Slue
Sluggy,a., Sluggish.
Sluice,n., An artifical passage for water, fitted with a valve or gate, as in a mill stream, for stopping or regulating the flow; also, a water gate or flood gate. 
Sluicy,a., Falling copiously or in streams, as from a sluice. 
Slumpy,a., Easily broken through; boggy; marshy; swampy.
Slushy,a., Abounding in slush; characterized by soft mud or half-melted snow; as, the streets are slushy; the snow is slushy. 
Slutch,n., Slush.
Smalls,n. pl., See Small, n., 2, 3. 
Smally,adv., In a small quantity or degree; with minuteness.
Smatch,n., Taste; tincture; smack.
Smeary,a., Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous.
Smeath,n., The smew.
Smeeth,v. t., To smoke; to blacken with smoke; to rub with soot.
Smegma,n., The matter secreted by any of the sebaceous glands.
Smerky,a., Smart; jaunty; spruce. See Smirk, a. 
Smiddy,n., A smithy.
Smight,v. t., To smite.
Smilax,n., A genus of perennial climbing plants, usually with a prickly woody stem; green brier, or cat brier. The rootstocks of certain species are the source of the medicine called sarsaparilla. 
Smiled,imp. & p. p., of Smile
Smiler,n., One who smiles.
Smilet,n., A little smile.
Smirch,v. t., To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully. 
Smirky,a., Smirk; smirking.
Smiter,n., One who smites.
Smithy,n., The workshop of a smith, esp. a blacksmith; a smithery; a stithy. 
Smoked,imp. & p. p., of Smoke
Smoker,n., One who dries or preserves by smoke.
Smooch,v. t., See Smutch.
Smooth,superl., Having an even surface, or a surface so even that no roughness or points can be perceived by the touch; not rough; as, smooth glass; smooth porcelain. 
Smouch,v. t., To kiss closely.
Smudge,n., A suffocating smoke.
Smugly,adv., In a smug manner.
Smutch,n., A stain; a dirty spot.
Smutty,superl., Soiled with smut; smutted.
Snacot,n., A pipefish of the genus Syngnathus. See Pipefish.
Snaggy,a., Full of snags; full of short, rough branches or sharp points; abounding with knots. 
Snaked,imp. & p. p., of Snake
Snappy,a., Snappish.
Snared,imp. & p. p., of Snare
Snarer,n., One who lays snares, or entraps. 
Snatch,n., To take or seize hastily, abruptly, or without permission or ceremony; as, to snatch a loaf or a kiss. 
Snathe,v. t., To lop; to prune.
Sneaky,n., Like a sneak; sneaking.
Sneath,n., Alt. of Sneathe
Sneeze,v. i., To emit air, chiefly through the nose, audibly and violently, by a kind of involuntary convulsive force, occasioned by irritation of the inner membrane of the nose. 
Snithe,a., Alt. of Snithy
Snithy,a., Sharp; piercing; cutting; -- applied to the wind.
Snivel,v. i., To run at the nose; to make a snuffling noise.
Snobby,a., Snobbish.
Snooze,n., A short sleep; a nap.
Snored,imp. & p. p., of Snore
Snorer,n., One who snores.
Snotty,a., Foul with snot; hence, mean; dirty. 
Snouty,a., Resembling a beast's snout.
Snowed,imp. & p. p., of Snow
Snudge,v. i., To lie snug or quiet.
Snuffy,a., Soiled with snuff.
Snugly,adv., In a snug manner; closely; safely.
Snying,n., A curved plank, placed edgewise, to work in the bows of a vessel. 
Soaked,imp. & p. p., of Soak
Soaker,n., One who, or that which, soaks. 
Soaped,imp. & p. p., of Soap
Soared,imp. & p. p., of Soar
Sobbed,imp. & p. p., of Sob
Socage,n., A tenure of lands and tenements by a certain or determinate service; a tenure distinct from chivalry or knight's service, in which the obligations were uncertain. The service must be certain, in order to be denominated socage, as to hold by fealty and twenty shillings rent. 
Social,a., Of or pertaining to society; relating to men living in society, or to the public as an aggregate body; as, social interest or concerns; social pleasure; social benefits; social happiness; social duties. 
Socket,n., An opening into which anything is fitted; any hollow thing or place which receives and holds something else; as, the sockets of the teeth. 
Socmen,pl. , of Socman
Socman,n., One who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager.
Socome,n., A custom of tenants to grind corn at the lord's mill.
Sodden,imp. & p. p., of Sod
Sodaic,a., Pertaining to, or containing, soda. 
Sodden,p. p., Boiled; seethed; also, soaked; heavy with moisture; saturated; as, sodden beef; sodden bread; sodden fields. 
Sodium,n., A common metallic element of the alkali group, in nature always occuring combined, as in common salt, in albite, etc. It is isolated as a soft, waxy, white, unstable metal, so readily oxidized that it combines violently with water, and to be preserved must be kept under petroleum or some similar liquid. Sodium is used combined in many salts, in the free state as a reducer, and as a means of obtaining other metals (as magnesium and aluminium
Sodomy,n., Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery.
Soever,, A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who, what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways, etc. It is sometimes used separate from the pronoun or adverb. 
Soffit,n., The under side of the subordinate parts and members of buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or the like. See Illust. of Lintel. 
Sofism,n., Same as Sufism.
Soften,v. t., To make soft or more soft.
Softly,adv., In a soft manner.
Soiled,imp. & p. p., of Soil
Soiree,n., An evening party; -- distinguished from levee, and matinee. 
Solace,v. t., Comfort in grief; alleviation of grief or anxiety; also, that which relieves in distress; that which cheers or consoles; relief. 
Soland,n., A solan goose.
Solano,, A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in the Mediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain. 
Solary,a., Solar.
Soldan,n., A sultan.
Solder,n., A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic cement.
Soling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sole
Solely,adv., Singly; alone; only; without another; as, to rest a cause solely one argument; to rely solelyn one's own strength. 
Solemn,a., Marked with religious rites and pomps; enjoined by, or connected with, religion; sacred. 
Solere,n., A loft or garret. See Solar, n. 
Solert,a., Skillful; clever; crafty.
Sollar,n., See Solar, n. 
Solute,a., Loose; free; liberal; as, a solute interpretation. 
Solved,imp. & p. p., of Solve
Solver,n., One who, or that which, solves. 
Somali,n., Alt. of Somal
Somber,a., Alt. of Sombre
Sombre,a., Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy; as, a somber forest; a somber house. 
Somber,v. t., Alt. of Sombre
Sombre,v. t., To make somber, or dark; to make shady. 
Somber,n., Alt. of Sombre
Sombre,n., Gloom; obscurity; duskiness; somberness.
Somite,n., One of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal, esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is is composed; somatome; metamere. 
Somner,n., A summoner; esp., one who summons to an ecclesiastical court. 
Sompne,v. t., To summon; to cite.
Sonant,a., Of or pertaining to sound; sounding.
Sonata,n., An extended composition for one or two instruments, consisting usually of three or four movements; as, Beethoven's sonatas for the piano, for the violin and piano, etc. 
Sonnet,n., A short poem, -- usually amatory. 
Sontag,n., A knitted worsted jacket, worn over the waist of a woman's dress. 
Soodra,, Same as Sudra.
Soofee,, Alt. of Soofeeism
Soojee,n., Same as Suji.
Soonee,n., See Sunnite.
Soonly,adv., Soon.
Soorma,n., A preparation of antimony with which Mohammedan men anoint their eyelids.
Soosoo,n., A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus
Sooted,imp. & p. p., of Soot
Soothe,a., To assent to as true.
Sopped,imp. & p. p., of Sop
Sophis,pl. , of Sophi
Sophic,a., Alt. of Sophical
Sophta,n., See Softa.
Sopite,v. t., To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet.
Sopper,n., One who sops.
Sorbet,n., A kind of beverage; sherbet.
Sorbic,a., Pertaining to, or obtained from, the rowan tree, or sorb; specifically, designating an acid, C/H/CO/H, of the acetylene series, found in the unripe berries of this tree, and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 
Sorbin,n., An unfermentable sugar, isomeric with glucose, found in the ripe berries of the rowan tree, or sorb, and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance; -- called also mountain-ash sugar. 
Sordes,n., Foul matter; excretion; dregs; filthy, useless, or rejected matter of any kind; specifically (Med.
Sordet,n., A sordine.
Sordid,a., Filthy; foul; dirty.
Sorely,adv., In a sore manner; grievously; painfully; as, to be sorely afflicted. 
Sorema,n., A heap of carpels belonging to one flower.
Sorgne,n., The three-beared rocking, or whistlefish. 
Sorner,n., One who obtrudes himself on another for bed and board.
Sorrel,a., Of a yellowish or redish brown color; as, a sorrel horse. 
Sorrow,n., The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness. 
Sortes,pl. , of Sors
Sorted,imp. & p. p., of Sort
Sortal,a., Pertaining to a sort.
Sorter,n., One who, or that which, sorts. 
Sortes,n., pl. of Sors.
Sortie,n., The sudden issuing of a body of troops, usually small, from a besieged place to attack or harass the besiegers; a sally. 
Sothic,a., Of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star; taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular. 
Sotted,, a. & p. p. of Sot. Befooled; deluded; besotted.
Souari,, The large edible nutlike seed of a tall tropical American tree (Caryocar nuciferum
Soubah,n., See Subah.
Soudan,n., A sultan.
Souded,a., Alt. of Soudet
Soudet,a., United; consolidated; made firm; strengthened.
Sought,, imp. & p. p. of Seek.
Souled,a., Furnished with a soul; possessing soul and feeling; -- used chiefly in composition; as, great-souled Hector. 
Sounst,a., Soused. See Souse.
Souple,n., That part of a flail which strikes the grain.
Soured,imp. & p. p., of Sour
Source,n., The act of rising; a rise; an ascent.
Sourde,v. i., To have origin or source; to rise; to spring.
Sourly,adv., In a sour manner; with sourness.
Soused,imp. & p. p., of Souse
Souter,n., A shoemaker; a cobbler.
Sovran,a., A variant of Sovereign.
Sowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sow
Sowans,n. pl., See Sowens.
Sowdan,n., Sultan.
Sowens,n. pl., A nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England. 
Sowins,n. pl., See Sowens.
Sowter,n., See Souter.
Soyned,a., Filled with care; anxious.
Sozzle,v. t., To splash or wet carelessly; as, to sozzle the feet in water. 
Spaced,imp. & p. p., of Space
Spaded,imp. & p. p., of Spade
Spader,n., One who, or that which, spades; specifically, a digging machine. 
Spadix,n., A fleshy spike of flowers, usually inclosed in a leaf called a spathe. 
Spahee,n., Formerly, one of the Turkish cavalry. 
Spared,imp. & p. p., of Spare
Sparer,n., One who spares.
Sparge,v. t., To sprinkle; to moisten by sprinkling; as, to sparge paper. 
Sparry,a., Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar; having a confused crystalline structure; spathose. 
Sparse,superl., Thinly scattered; set or planted here and there; not being dense or close together; as, a sparse population. 
Sparth,n., An Anglo-Saxon battle-ax, or halberd. 
Sparve,n., The hedge sparrow.
Spatha,n., A spathe.
Spathe,n., A special involucre formed of one leaf and inclosing a spadix, as in aroid plants and palms. See the Note under Bract, and Illust. of Spadix. 
Spauld,n., The shoulder.
Spavin,n., A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developed on the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, the swelling itself. The resulting lameness is due to the inflammation, and not the bony tumor as popularly supposed. 
Spayed,imp. & p. p., of Spay
Spayad,n., Alt. of Spayade
Spoken,p. p., of Speak
Speary,a., Having the form of a spear.
Specht,n., A woodpecker.
Specie,, abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie, that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own
Speckt,n., A woodpecker. See Speight.
Speece,n., Species; sort.
Speech,n., The faculty of uttering articulate sounds or words; the faculty of expressing thoughts by words or articulate sounds; the power of speaking.
Speedy,superl., Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot. 
Speiss,n., A regulus consisting essentially of nickel, obtained as a residue in fusing cobalt and nickel ores with silica and sodium carbonate to make smalt. 
Spence,n., A place where provisions are kept; a buttery; a larder; a pantry.
Sperre,v. t., To shut in; to support; to inclose; to fasten.
Sperge,n., A charge of wash for the still.
Sperse,v. t., To disperse.
Spewed,imp. & p. p., of Spew
Spewer,n., One who spews.
Sphene,n., A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a yellow or green to black color. It is a silicate of titanium and calcium; titanite. 
Sphere,n., A body or space contained under a single surface, which in every part is equally distant from a point within called its center. 
Sphery,a., Round; spherical; starlike.
Sphinx,n., In Egyptian art, an image of granite or porphyry, having a human head, or the head of a ram or of a hawk, upon the wingless body of a lion. 
Spicae,pl. , of Spica
Spiced,imp. & p. p., of Spice
Spicer,n., One who seasons with spice.
Spider,n., Any one of numerous species of arachnids comprising the order Araneina. Spiders have the mandibles converted into poison fangs, or falcers. The abdomen is large and not segmented, with two or three pairs of spinnerets near the end, by means of which they spin threads of silk to form cocoons, or nests, to protect their eggs and young. Many species spin also complex webs to entrap the insects upon which they prey. The eyes are usually eight in number (rarely six
Spight,n. & v., Spite.
Spigot,n., A pin or peg used to stop the vent in a cask; also, the plug of a faucet or cock. 
Spiked,imp. & p. p., of Spike
Spilth,n., Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion. 
Spinal,a., Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral. 
Spined,a., Furnished with spines; spiny.
Spinel,n., Alt. of Spinelle
Spinet,n., A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much used. 
Spinny,n., A small thicket or grove with undergrowth; a clump of trees.
Spiral,a., Winding or circling round a center or pole and gradually receding from it; as, the spiral curve of a watch spring. 
Spired,imp. & p. p., of Spire
Spirit,n., Air set in motion by breathing; breath; hence, sometimes, life itself. 
Spital,n., A hospital.
Spited,imp. & p. p., of Spite
Splash,v. t., To strike and dash about, as water, mud, etc.; to plash. 
Spleen,n., A peculiar glandlike but ductless organ found near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and connected with the vascular system; the milt. Its exact function in not known.
Splent,n., See Splent.
Splice,v. t., To unite, as two ropes, or parts of a rope, by a particular manner of interweaving the strands, -- the union being between two ends, or between an end and the body of a rope. 
Spline,n., A rectangular piece fitting grooves like key seats in a hub and a shaft, so that while the one may slide endwise on the other, both must revolve together; a feather; also, sometimes, a groove to receive such a rectangular piece. 
Splint,v. t., A piece split off; a splinter.
Spoilt,, of Spoil
Spoked,imp. & p. p., of Spoke
Spoken,a., Uttered in speech; delivered by word of mouth; oral; as, a spoken narrative; the spoken word. 
Sponge,n., Any one of numerous species of Spongiae, or Porifera. See Illust. and Note under Spongiae. 
Spongy,a., Soft, and full of cavities; of an open, loose, pliable texture; as, a spongy excrescence; spongy earth; spongy cake; spongy bones. 
Spoony,a. & n., Same as Spooney.
Sporid,n., A sporidium.
Spotty,a., Full of spots; marked with spots.
Spouse,n., A man or woman engaged or joined in wedlock; a married person, husband or wife. 
Sprack,a., Quick; lively; alert.
Sprain,v. t., To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle. 
Sprang,, imp. of Spring.
Sprawl,v. i., To spread and stretch the body or limbs carelessly in a horizontal position; to lie with the limbs stretched out ungracefully.
Srawls,n. pl., Small branches of a tree; twigs; sprays.
Spread,imp. & p. p., of Spread
Sprent,, p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled.
Sprang,imp., of Spring
Sprung,, of Spring
Spring,v. i., To leap; to bound; to jump.
Sprint,v. i., To run very rapidly; to run at full speed.
Sprite,n., A spirit; a soul; a shade; also, an apparition. See Spright. 
Sprong,, imp. of Spring. Sprung.
Sprout,v. t., To shoot, as the seed of a plant; to germinate; to push out new shoots; hence, to grow like shoots of plants. 
Spruce,a., Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce (P. excelsa
Sprung,, imp. & p. p. of Spring.
Sprunt,v. i., To spring up; to germinate; to spring forward or outward.
Spumed,imp. & p. p., of Spume
Spumid,a., Spumous; frothy.
Spunge,n., A sponge.
Spunky,superl., Full of spunk; quick; spirited.
Spurge,v. t., To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast from beer in course of fermentation.
Spurry,n., An annual herb (Spergula arvensis
Sputum,n., That which is expectorated; a salival discharge; spittle; saliva.
Spying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Spy
Spyism,n., Act or business of spying.
Squail,v. i., To throw sticls at cocks; to throw anything about awkwardly or irregularly.
Squali,n. pl., The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks.
Squall,n., A sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow.
Squama,n., A scale cast off from the skin; a thin dry shred consisting of epithelium.
Squame,n., A scale.
Square,n., The corner, or angle, of a figure. 
Squash,n., An American animal allied to the weasel.
Squawk,v. i., To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly. 
Squawl,v. i., See Squall.
Squeak,v. i., To utter a sharp, shrill cry, usually of short duration; to cry with an acute tone, as an animal; or, to make a sharp, disagreeable noise, as a pipe or quill, a wagon wheel, a door; to creak. 
Squeal,v. i., To cry with a sharp, shrill, prolonged sound, as certain animals do, indicating want, displeasure, or pain. 
Squesy,a., Queasy; nice; squeamish; fastidious; scrupulous.
Squier,n., A square. See 1st Squire.
Squill,n., A European bulbous liliaceous plant (Urginea, formerly Scilla, maritima
Squint,a., Looking obliquely. Specifically (Med.
Squiny,v. i., To squint.
Squire,n., A square; a measure; a rule.
Squirm,v. i., To twist about briskly with contor/ions like an eel or a worm; to wriggle; to writhe.
Squirr,v. t., See Squir.
Squirt,v. t., To drive or eject in a stream out of a narrow pipe or orifice; as, to squirt water. 
Squiry,n., The body of squires, collectively considered; squirarchy. 
Stabat,, A celebrated Latin hymn, beginning with these words, commemorating the sorrows of the mother of our Lord at the foot of the cross. It is read in the Mass of the Sorrows of the Virgin Mary, and is sung by Catholics when making   the way of the cross   (Via Crucis
Stable,v. i., Firmly established; not easily moved, shaken, or overthrown; fixed; as, a stable government. 
Stably,adv., In a stable manner; firmly; fixedly; steadily; as, a government stably settled. 
Stacte,n., One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh or cinnamon, or a kind of storax. 
Stadia,pl. , of Stadium
Staves,pl. , of Staff
Staffs,pl. , of Staff
Stager,n., A player.
Staith,n., A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels. 
Staked,imp. & p. p., of Stake
Staled,imp. & p. p., of Stale
Stalky,a., Hard as a stalk; resembling a stalk.
Stamen,n., A thread; especially, a warp thread. 
Stamin,n., A kind of woolen cloth.
Stance,n., A stanza.
Stanch,v. t., To stop the flowing of, as blood; to check; also, to stop the flowing of blood from; as, to stanch a wound. 
Stanza,n., A number of lines or verses forming a division of a song or poem, and agreeing in meter, rhyme, number of lines, etc., with other divisions; a part of a poem, ordinarily containing every variation of measure in that poem; a combination or arrangement of lines usually recurring; whether like or unlike, in measure. 
Stapes,n., The innermost of the ossicles of the ear; the stirrup, or stirrup bone; -- so called from its form. See Illust. of Ear. 
Staple,n., A settled mart; an emporium; a city or town to which merchants brought commodities for sale or exportation in bulk; a place for wholesale traffic.
Starch,a., Stiff; precise; rigid.
stared,imp. & p. p., of Stare
Starer,n., One who stares, or gazes. 
Starry,a., Abounding with stars; adorned with stars.
Starve,v. i., To die; to perish.
Stasis,n., A slackening or arrest of the blood current in the vessels, due not to a lessening of the heart's beat, but presumably to some abnormal resistance of the capillary walls. It is one of the phenomena observed in the capillaries in inflammation. 
Statal,a., Of, pertaining to, or existing with reference to, a State of the American Union, as distinguished from the general government. 
Stated,imp. & p. p., of State
Stater,n., One who states.
Static,a., Alt. of Statical
Statua,n., A statue.
Statue,n., The likeness of a living being sculptured or modeled in some solid substance, as marble, bronze, or wax; an image; as, a statue of Hercules, or of a lion. 
Status,n., State; condition; position of affairs.
Staved,imp. & p. p., of Stave
Staves,n., pl. of Staff.
Stayed,imp. & p. p., of Stay
Stayer,n., One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man, etc., that has endurance, an a race. 
Steady,n., Firm in standing or position; not tottering or shaking; fixed; firm.
Stolen,p. p., of Steal
Steamy,a., Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous; misty. 
Steely,a., Made of steel; consisting of steel.
Steepy,a., Steep; precipitous.
Steeve,v. i., To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc. 
Stelae,pl. , of Stela
Stemma,n., One of the ocelli of an insect. See Ocellus.
Stemmy,a., Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried currants, etc. 
Stench,v. t., To stanch.
Stente,Obs. imp., of Stent
Steppe,n., One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia, generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the prairies in Western North America. See Savanna. 
Sterna,pl. , of Sternum
Sterre,n., A star.
Sterte,, p. p. of Start.
Sterve,v. t. & i., To die, or cause to die; to perish. See Starve. 
Steven,n., Voice; speech; language.
Stewed,imp. & p. p., of Stew
Stibic,a., Antimonic; -- used with reference to certain compounds of antimony.
Sticky,superl., Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey; viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious.
Stiddy,n., An anvil; also, a smith shop. See Stithy. 
Stifle,n., The joint next above the hock, and near the flank, in the hind leg of the horse and allied animals; the joint corresponding to the knee in man; -- called also stifle joint. See Illust. under Horse. 
Stigma,v. t., A mark made with a burning iron; a brand.
Stilar,a., Of or pertaining to the style of a dial.
Stilet,n., A stiletto.
Stilly,a., Still; quiet; calm.
Stilty,a., Unreasonably elevated; pompous; stilted; as, a stilty style. 
Stingo,n., Old beer; sharp or strong liquor.
Stingy,a., Stinging; able to sting.
Stipel,n., The stipule of a leaflet.
Stipes,n., The second joint of a maxilla of an insect or a crustacean.
Stirps,n., Stock; race; family.
Stirte,, imp. of Start, v. i. & t. 
Stitch,v. i., A single pass of a needle in sewing; the loop or turn of the thread thus made.
Stithy,n., An anvil.
Stived,imp. & p. p., of Stive
Stiver,n., A Dutch coin, and money of account, of the value of two cents, or about one penny sterling; hence, figuratively, anything of little worth. 
Stives,n. pl., Stews; a brothel.
Stocah,n., A menial attendant.
Stocky,a., Short and thick; thick rather than tall or corpulent.
Stodgy,a., Wet.
Stoker,v. t., One who is employed to tend a furnace and supply it with fuel, especially the furnace of a locomotive or of a marine steam boiler; also, a machine for feeding fuel to a fire. 
Stokey,a., Close; sultry.
Stolae,pl. , of Stola
Stoled,a., Having or wearing a stole.
Stolen,, p. p. of Steal.
Stolid,a., Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited; dull; impassive; foolish.
Stolon,n., A trailing branch which is disposed to take root at the end or at the joints; a stole.
Stoned,imp. & p. p., of Stone
Stoner,n., One who stones; one who makes an assault with stones.
Stoped,imp. & p. p., of Stope
Stopen,p. p., Stepped; gone; advanced.
Storax,n., Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family. The most common of these is liquid storax, a brown or gray semifluid substance of an agreeable aromatic odor and balsamic taste, sometimes used in perfumery, and in medicine as an expectorant. 
Stored,imp. & p. p., of Store
Storer,n., One who lays up or forms a store.
Storey,n., See Story.
Storge,n., Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals have for their young.
Stormy,superl., Characterized by, or proceeding from, a storm; subject to storms; agitated with furious winds; biosterous; tempestous; as, a stormy season; a stormy day or week. 
Stound,v. i., To be in pain or sorrow.
Stoved,imp. & p. p., of Stove
Stover,n., Fodder for cattle, especially straw or coarse hay. 
Stowed,imp. & p. p., of Stow
Stowce,n., A windlass.
Stowre,a., See Stour, a. 
Straik,n., A strake.
Strain,n., Race; stock; generation; descent; family.
Strait,a., A variant of Straight.
Strake,, imp. of Strike.
Strale,n., Pupil of the eye.
Strand,n., One of the twists, or strings, as of fibers, wires, etc., of which a rope is composed. 
Strang,a., Strong.
Strany,n., The guillemot.
Strass,n., A brilliant glass, used in the manufacture of artificial paste gems, which consists essentially of a complex borosilicate of lead and potassium. Cf. Glass. 
Strata,n., pl. of Stratum.
Strath,n., A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore. 
Strata,pl. , of Stratum
Strawy,a., Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw. 
Streak,v. t., To stretch; to extend; hence, to lay out, as a dead body. 
Stream,n., A current of water or other fluid; a liquid flowing continuously in a line or course, either on the earth, as a river, brook, etc., or from a vessel, reservoir, or fountain; specifically, any course of running water; as, many streams are blended in the Mississippi; gas and steam came from the earth in streams; a stream of molten lead from a furnace; a stream of lava from a volcano. 
Streek,v. t., To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak. 
Streel,v. i., To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly, swaying in a kind of zigzag motion. 
Streen,n., See Strene.
Street,a., Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings or business houses. 
Strein,v. t., To strain.
Streit,a., Drawn.
Strene,n., Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain.
Stress,n., Distress.
strewn,p. p., of Strew
Strewn,, p. p. of Strew.
Striae,pl. , of Stria
Strich,n., An owl.
Strick,n., A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers.
Strict,a., Strained; drawn close; tight; as, a strict embrace; a strict ligature. 
Strode,imp., of Stride
Stride,v. t., To walk with long steps, especially in a measured or pompous manner. 
Strife,n., The act of striving; earnest endeavor.
Struck,imp., of Strike
Strike,v. t., To touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile. 
String,n., A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a shoe string; a bonnet string; a silken string. 
Strung,imp., of String
String,v. t., To furnish with strings; as, to string a violin. 
Stripe,n., A line, or long, narrow division of anything of a different color or structure from the ground; hence, any linear variation of color or structure; as, a stripe, or streak, of red on a green ground; a raised stripe. 
Strove,imp., of Strive
Strive,v. i., To make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness; to labor hard.
Stroam,v. i., To wander about idly and vacantly.
Strode,n., See Strude.
Stroke,imp., Struck.
Stroll,v. i., To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove.
Stroma,n., The connective tissue or supporting framework of an organ; as, the stroma of the kidney. 
Stromb,n., Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied genera. See Conch, and Strombus. 
Strond,n., Strand; beach.
Strong,superl., Having active physical power, or great physical power to act; having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous. 
Strook,, imp. of Strike.
Stroot,v. i., To swell out; to strut.
Stroud,n., A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American Indians.
Strout,v. i., To swell; to puff out; to project.
Strove,, imp. of Strive.
Strown,p. p., of Strow
Strowl,v. i., To stroll.
Strown,, p. p. of Strow.
Struck,, imp. & p. p. of Strike.
Strude,n., A stock of breeding mares.
Strull,n., A bar so placed as to resist weight.
Struma,n., Scrofula.
Strung,, imp. & p. p. of String.
Strunt,n., Spirituous liquor.
Struse,n., A Russian river craft used for transporting freight.
Stubby,a., Abounding with stubs.
Stucco,n., Plaster of any kind used as a coating for walls, especially, a fine plaster, composed of lime or gypsum with sand and pounded marble, used for internal decorations and fine work. 
Studio,n., The working room of an artist.
Stuffy,a., Stout; mettlesome; resolute.
Stulty,a., Foolish; silly.
Stumpy,a., Full of stumps; hard; strong.
Stuped,imp. & p. p., of Stupe
Stupid,a., Very dull; insensible; senseless; wanting in understanding; heavy; sluggish; in a state of stupor; -- said of persons.
Stupor,n., Great diminution or suspension of sensibility; suppression of sense or feeling; lethargy.
Sturdy,superl., Foolishly obstinate or resolute; stubborn; unrelenting; unfeeling; stern.
Stying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Sty
Stylar,a., See Stilar.
Styled,imp. & p. p., of Style
Stylet,n., A small poniard; a stiletto.
Stylus,n., An instrument for writing. See Style, n., 1. 
Styrax,n., A genus of shrubs and trees, mostly American or Asiatic, abounding in resinous and aromatic substances. Styrax officinalis yields storax, and S. Benzoin yields benzoin. 
Styrol,n., See Styrolene.
Styryl,n., A hypothetical radical found in certain derivatives of styrolene and cinnamic acid; -- called also cinnyl, or cinnamyl. 
Stythe,n., Choke damp.
Stythy,n. & v., See Stithy.
Suable,a., Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer in court.
Subact,v. t., To reduce; to subdue.
Subash,n., A province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar. 
Subaid,v. t., To aid secretly; to assist in a private manner, or indirectly. 
Subaud,v. t., To understand or supply in an ellipsis.
Subdue,v. t., To bring under; to conquer by force or the exertion of superior power, and bring into permanent subjection; to reduce under dominion; to vanquish. 
Subito,adv., In haste; quickly; rapidly.
Sublet,imp. & p. p., of Sublet
Submit,v. t., To let down; to lower.
Subnex,v. t., To subjoin; to subnect.
Suborn,v. t., To procure or cause to take a false oath amounting to perjury, such oath being actually taken. 
Subtle,superl., Sly in design; artful; cunning; insinuating; subtile; -- applied to persons; as, a subtle foe. 
Subtly,adv., In a subtle manner; slyly; artfully; cunningly.
Suburb,n., An outlying part of a city or town; a smaller place immediately adjacent to a city; in the plural, the region which is on the confines of any city or large town; as, a house stands in the suburbs; a garden situated in the suburbs of Paris. 
Subway,n., An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are conducted. 
Succor,v. t., To run to, or run to support; hence, to help or relieve when in difficulty, want, or distress; to assist and deliver from suffering; to relieve; as, to succor a besieged city. 
Succus,n., The expressed juice of a plant, for medicinal use. 
Sucked,imp. & p. p., of Suck
Sucken,n., The jurisdiction of a mill, or that extent of ground astricted to it, the tenants of which are bound to bring their grain thither to be ground. 
Sucker,n., One who, or that which, sucks; esp., one of the organs by which certain animals, as the octopus and remora, adhere to other bodies. 
Sucket,v. t., A sweetmeat; a dainty morsel.
Suckle,n., A teat.
Sudary,n., A napkin or handkerchief.
Sudden,a., Happening without previous notice or with very brief notice; coming unexpectedly, or without the common preparation; immediate; instant; speedy. 
Suffer,v. t., To feel, or endure, with pain, annoyance, etc.; to submit to with distress or grief; to undergo; as, to suffer pain of body, or grief of mind. 
Suffix,n., A letter, letters, syllable, or syllables added or appended to the end of a word or a root to modify the meaning; a postfix. 
Sufism,n., A refined mysticism among certain classes of Mohammedans, particularly in Persia, who hold to a kind of pantheism and practice extreme asceticism in their lives. 
Sugary,a., Resembling or containing sugar; tasting of sugar; sweet.
Suggil,v. t., To defame.
Suited,imp. & p. p., of Suit
Suitor,n., One who sues, petitions, or entreats; a petitioner; an applicant. 
Sulcus,n., A furrow; a groove; a fissure.
Suleah,, A coarse fish of India, used in making a breakfast relish called burtah. 
Sulker,n., One who sulks.
Sullen,a., Lonely; solitary; desolate.
Sultan,n., A ruler, or sovereign, of a Mohammedan state; specifically, the ruler of the Turks; the Padishah, or Grand Seignior; -- officially so called. 
Sultry,superl., Very hot, burning, and oppressive; as, Libya's sultry deserts. 
Summed,imp. & p. p., of Sum
Sumach,n., Any plant of the genus Rhus, shrubs or small trees with usually compound leaves and clusters of small flowers. Some of the species are used in tanning, some in dyeing, and some in medicine. One, the Japanese Rhus vernicifera, yields the celebrated Japan varnish, or lacquer. 
Sumbul,n., The musky root of an Asiatic umbelliferous plant, Ferula Sumbul. It is used in medicine as a stimulant. 
Summer,v., One who sums; one who casts up an account.
Summit,n., The top; the highest point.
Summon,v. t., To call, bid, or cite; to notify to come to appear; -- often with up. 
Sumner,n., A summoner.
Sumoom,n., See Simoom.
Sunned,imp. & p. p., of Sun
Sunbow,n., A rainbow; an iris.
Sunday,n., The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day. 
Sunder,v. t., To disunite in almost any manner, either by rending, cutting, or breaking; to part; to put or keep apart; to separate; to divide; to sever; as, to sunder a rope; to sunder a limb; to sunder friends. 
Sundew,n., Any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects. After an insect is caught, the glands curve inward like tentacles and the leaf digests it. Called also lustwort. 
Sundog,n., A luminous spot occasionally seen a few degrees from the sun, supposed to be formed by the intersection of two or more halos, or in a manner similar to that of halos. 
Sundry,v. t., Several; divers; more than one or two; various.
Sunken,a., Lying on the bottom of a river or other water; sunk.
Sunlit,a., Lighted by the sun.
Sunnud,n., A charter or warrant; also, a deed of gift. 
Sunset,n., Alt. of Sunsetting
Supped,imp. & p. p., of Sup
Supawn,n., Boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush.
Superb,a., Grand; magnificent; august; stately; as, a superb edifice; a superb colonnade. 
Supine,a., Lying on the back, or with the face upward; -- opposed to prone. 
Supper,n., A meal taken at the close of the day; the evening meal.
Supple,a., Pliant; flexible; easily bent; as, supple joints; supple fingers. 
Supply,v. t., To fill up, or keep full; to furnish with what is wanted; to afford, or furnish with, a sufficiency; as, rivers are supplied by smaller streams; an aqueduct supplies an artificial lake; -- often followed by with before the thing furnished; as, to supply a furnace with fuel; to supply soldiers with ammunition. 
Surbed,v. t., To set edgewise, as a stone; that is, to set it in a position different from that which it had in the quarry. 
Surbet,v. t., Same as Surbate.
Surcle,n., A little shoot; a twig; a sucker.
Surdal,a., Same as Surd, a., 3. 
Surely,adv., In a sure or certain manner; certainly; infallibly; undoubtedly; assuredly.
Surety,n., The state of being sure; certainty; security.
Surfel,v. t., Alt. of Surfle
Surfle,v. t., To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be prepared from the sulphur. 
Surfer,n., The surf duck.
Surmen,pl. , of Surfman
Surged,imp. & p. p., of Surge
Surrey,n., A four-wheeled pleasure carriage, (commonly two-seated
Surtax,n., An additional or extra tax.
Survey,v. t., To inspect, or take a view of; to view with attention, as from a high place; to overlook; as, to stand on a hill, and survey the surrounding country. 
Suslik,n., A ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus
Suster,n., Alt. of Sustre
Sustre,n., Sister.
Sutile,a., Done by stitching.
Sutler,n., A person who follows an army, and sells to the troops provisions, liquors, and the like. 
Sutras,pl. , of Sutra
Suttee,n., A Hindoo widow who immolates herself, or is immolated, on the funeral pile of her husband; -- so called because this act of self-immolation is regarded as envincing excellence of wifely character. 
Suttle,n., The weight when the tare has been deducted, and tret is yet to be allowed. 
Suture,n., The act of sewing; also, the line along which two things or parts are sewed together, or are united so as to form a seam, or that which resembles a seam. 
Swaged,imp. & p. p., of Swage
Swaggy,a., Inclined to swag; sinking, hanging, or leaning by its weight. 
Swampy,a., Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as, swampy land. 
Swanky,n., An active and clever young fellow.
Swanny,a., Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck. 
Swardy,a., Covered with sward or grass.
Swarth,a., Swart; swarthy.
Swarty,a., Swarthy; tawny.
Swarve,v. i., To swerve.
Swashy,a., Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash. 
Swatch,n., A swath.
Swathe,n., To bind with a swathe, band, bandage, or rollers. 
Swatte,, imp. of Sweat.
Swayed,imp. & p. p., of Sway
Sweaty,superl., Moist with sweat; as, a sweaty skin; a sweaty garment. 
Sweeny,n., An atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also, atrophy of any muscle in horses. 
Sweepy,a., Moving with a sweeping motion.
Sweigh,n., Sway; movement.
Swelve,v. t., To swallow.
Swerve,v. i., To stray; to wander; to rope.
Sweven,n., A vision seen in sleep; a dream.
Swinck,v. & n., See Swink.
Swinge,v. & n., See Singe.
Swiped,imp. & p. p., of Swipe
Swiple,n., That part of a flail which strikes the grain in thrashing; a swingel.
Switch,n., A small, flexible twig or rod. 
Swithe,adv., Instantly; quickly; speedily; rapidly.
Swivel,a., A piece, as a ring or hook, attached to another piece by a pin, in such a manner as to permit rotation about the pin as an axis. 
Swough,n., A sound; a groan; a moan; a sough.
Swound,v. & n., See Swoon, v. & n. 
Swythe,adv., Quickly. See Swithe.
Sycite,n., A nodule of flint, or a pebble, which resembles a fig. 
Sycock,n., The missel thrush.
Sylvae,pl. , of Sylva
Sylvan,a., Of or pertaining to a sylva; forestlike; hence, rural; rustic. 
Sylvic,a., Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pine or its products; specifically, designating an acid called also abeitic acid, which is the chief ingredient of common resin (obtained from Pinus sylvestris, and other species
Symarr,n., See Simar.
Symbal,n., See Cimbal.
Symbol,n., A visible sign or representation of an idea; anything which suggests an idea or quality, or another thing, as by resemblance or by convention; an emblem; a representation; a type; a figure; as, the lion is the symbol of courage; the lamb is the symbol of meekness or patience. 
Syndic,n., An officer of government, invested with different powers in different countries; a magistrate. 
Synepy,n., The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses of sentences. 
Syntax,n., Connected system or order; union of things; a number of things jointed together; organism.
Syphon,n., See Syphon.
Syriac,a., Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac version of the Pentateuch. 
Syrian,a., Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac.
Syrinx,n., A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also pandean pipes.
Syrtic,a., Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand. 
Syrtes,pl. , of Syrtis
Syrtis,n., A quicksand.
Syrupy,a., Same as Sirup, Sirupy. 
System,n., An assemblage of objects arranged in regular subordination, or after some distinct method, usually logical or scientific; a complete whole of objects related by some common law, principle, or end; a complete exhibition of essential principles or facts, arranged in a rational dependence or connection; a regular union of principles or parts forming one entire thing; as, a system of philosophy; a system of government; a system of divinity; a system of botany or chemistry; a military system; the solar system. 
Syzygy,n., The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural. 
Tabard,n., A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment adopted for heralds. 
Tabefy,v. t., To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate. 
Taberd,n., See Tabard.
Tables,pl. , of Table d'hote
Tabler,n., One who boards.
Tablet,n., A small table or flat surface.
Tabour,n. & v., See Tabor.
Tabret,n., A taboret.
Tabula,n., A table; a tablet.
Tacaud,n., The bib, or whiting pout. 
Tacked,imp. & p. p., of Tack
Tacker,n., One who tacks.
Tacket,n., A small, broad-headed nail. 
Tackey,a. & n., See Tacky.
Tackle,n., Apparatus for raising or lowering heavy weights, consisting of a rope and pulley blocks; sometimes, the rope and attachments, as distinct from the block. 
Tactic,a., Alt. of Tactical
Taenia,n., A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms of man. See Tapeworm.
Tagged,imp. & p. p., of Tag
Tagger,n., One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another. 
Taglet,n., A little tag.
Taglia,n., A peculiar combination of pulleys.
Taguan,n., A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista
Tailed,a., Having a tail; having (such
Taille,n., A tally; an account scored on a piece of wood.
Tailor,n., One whose occupation is to cut out and make men's garments; also, one who cuts out and makes ladies' outer garments. 
Tajacu,n., Alt. of Tajassu
Takend,p. p., of Take
Taking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Take
Talbot,n., A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game. 
Talent,v. t., Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money equal to 60 minae or 6,000 drachmae. The Attic talent, as a weight, was about 57 lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver money, its value was ?243 15s. sterling, or about $1,180. 
Talion,n., Retaliation.
Talked,imp. & p. p., of Talk
Talker,n., One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist. 
Tallow,n., The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated from membranous and fibrous matter by melting. 
Talmas,pl. , of Talma
Talmud,n., The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch.
Talook,n., Alt. of Taluk
Tambac,n., See Tombac.
Taming,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tame
Tamely,adv., In a tame manner.
Tamias,n., A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk. 
Tamine,n., Alt. of Taminy
Taminy,n., A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.
Tamkin,n., A tampion.
Tamped,imp. & p. p., of Tamp
Tampan,n., A venomous South African tick.
Tamper,n., One who tamps; specifically, one who prepares for blasting, by filling the hole in which the charge is placed. 
Tampoe,n., The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana
Tampon,n., A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of medicine. 
Tanned,imp. & p. p., of Tan
Tanate,n., An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides
Tandem,adv. & a., One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and driven one before another, instead of abreast. 
Tanged,imp. & p. p., of Tang
Tangle,n., To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock, as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to entangle; to ravel. 
Tangly,a., Entangled; intricate.
Tangue,n., The tenrec.
Tangun,n., A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet. 
Tanier,n., An aroid plant (Caladium sagittaefolium
Tanist,n., In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry. 
Tanite,n., A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc. 
Tankia,n., See Tanka.
Tanner,n., One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into leather by the use of tan. 
Tannic,a., Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as, tannic acid. 
Tannin,n., Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic. 
Tanrec,n., Same as Tenrec.
Taoism,n., One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state. 
Tapped,imp. & p. p., of Tap
Tapeti,n., A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis
Tapish,v. i., To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self. 
Tappen,n., An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of bears and other animals during hibernation. 
Tapper,n., The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor
Tappet,n., A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce change or regulate motion. 
Tappis,v. i., See Tapish.
Tappit,, A hen having a tuft of feathers on her head.
Tarred,imp. & p. p., of Tar
Taring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tare
Target,n., A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in war. 
Targum,n., A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.
Tariff,n., A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff. (U. S. 1833
Taring,n., The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock. 
Tarpan,n., A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.
Tarpon,n., Same as Tarpum.
Tarpum,n., A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus
Tarras,n., See Trass.
Tarsal,a., Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye
Tarsel,n., A male hawk. See Tercel.
Tarsia,n., Alt. of Tarsiatura
Tarsus,n., The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short bones. 
Tartan,n., Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern. 
Tartar,n., A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine stone, etc. 
Tartly,adv., In a tart manner; with acidity.
Tasked,imp. & p. p., of Task
Tasker,n., One who imposes a task.
Taslet,n., A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse.
Tassel,n., A male hawk. See Tercel.
Tasset,n., A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet. 
Tasted,imp. & p. p., of Taste
Taster,n., One who tastes; especially, one who first tastes food or drink to ascertain its quality. 
Tatter,n., One who makes tatting.
Tattle,v. i., To prate; to talk idly; to use many words with little meaning; to chat.
Tattoo,n., A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night, giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters in garrison, or to their tents in camp. 
Taught,a., See Taut.
Taurus,n., The Bull; the second in order of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of April; -- marked thus [/] in almanacs. 
Tautog,n., An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis
Tavern,n., A public house where travelers and other transient guests are accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small quantities. 
Tawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Taw
Tawdry,superl., Bought at the festival of St. Audrey.
Tawery,n., A place where skins are tawed.
Taxing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tax
Taxine,n., A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata
Taught,imp. & p. p., of Teach
Teache,n., One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series. 
Teacup,n., A small cup from which to drink tea.
Teagle,n., A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift.
Teague,n., An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt.
Teamed,a., Yoked in, or as in, a team. 
Teapot,n., A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups. 
Teapoy,n., An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea. 
Tearer,n., One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence. 
Teased,imp. & p. p., of Tease
Teasel,n., A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum
Teaser,n., One who teases or vexes.
Teasle,n. & v. t., See Teasel.
Teated,a., Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal.
Teathe,n. & v., See Tath.
Teazel,n. & v. t., See Teasel.
Teazer,n., The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works. 
Teazle,n. & v. t., See Teasel.
Tebeth,n., The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of December with a part of January. 
Tectly,adv., Covertly; privately; secretly.
Tedded,imp. & p. p., of Ted
Tedder,n., A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its drying. 
Tedium,n., Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness.
Teemed,imp. & p. p., of Teem
Teemer,n., One who teems, or brings forth. 
Teeong,n., The mino bird.
Teetan,n., A pipit.
Teetee,n., Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as, the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus
Teeter,v. i. & t., To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter-totter. 
Teeuck,n., The lapwing.
Teewit,n., The pewit.
Tegmen,n., A tegument or covering.
Tegula,n., A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum.
Telary,a., Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary. 
Teledu,n., An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps
Telesm,n., A kind of amulet or magical charm.
Tellen,n., Any species of Tellina.
Teller,n., One who tells, relates, or communicates; an informer, narrator, or describer. 
Telson,n., The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen of Crustacea and other articulates. See Thoracostraca.
Telugu,n., A Darvidian language spoken in the northern parts of the Madras presidency. In extent of use it is the next language after Hindustani (in its various forms
Temper,v. t., To mingle in due proportion; to prepare by combining; to modify, as by adding some new element; to qualify, as by an ingredient; hence, to soften; to mollify; to assuage; to soothe; to calm. 
Temple,n., A contrivence used in a loom for keeping the web stretched transversely.
Tempse,n., See Temse.
Tenace,n., The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cards of a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with third best card of a suit in any hand. 
Tenacy,n., Tenaciousness; obstinacy.
Tenant,n., One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also, one who has the occupation or temporary possession of lands or tenements the title of which is in another; -- correlative to landlord. See Citation from Blackstone, under Tenement, 2. 
Tended,imp. & p. p., of Tend
Tender,n., One who tends; one who takes care of any person or thing; a nurse.
Tendon,n., A tough insensible cord, bundle, or band of fibrous connective tissue uniting a muscle with some other part; a sinew. 
Tendry,n., A tender; an offer.
Tenent,n., A tenet.
Tennis,n., A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand. 
Tenrec,n., A small insectivore (Centetes ecaudatus
Tensor,n., A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense. 
Tented,imp. & p. p., of Tent
Tenter,n., One who takes care of, or tends, machines in a factory; a kind of assistant foreman. 
Tentif,a., Attentive.
Tenues,pl. , of Tenuis
Tenuis,n., One of the three surd mutes /, /, /; -- so called in relation to their respective middle letters, or medials, /, /, /, and their aspirates, /, /, /. The term is also applied to the corresponding letters and articulate elements in other languages. 
Tenure,n., The act or right of holding, as property, especially real estate. 
Tepefy,v. t. & i., To make or become tepid, or moderately warm. 
Teraph,n., See Teraphim.
Terbic,a., Of, pertaining to, or containing, terbium; also, designating certain of its compounds. 
Tercel,n., See Tiercel. Called also tarsel, tassel. 
Tercet,n., A triplet.
Teredo,n., A genus of long, slender, wormlike bivalve mollusks which bore into submerged wood, such as the piles of wharves, bottoms of ships, etc.; -- called also shipworm. See Shipworm. See Illust. in App. 
Terete,a., Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants. 
Tergal,a., Of or pertaining to back, or tergum. See Dorsal. 
Tergum,n., The back of an animal.
Termed,imp. & p. p., of Term
Termer,n., One who resorted to London during the law term only, in order to practice tricks, to carry on intrigues, or the like. 
Termes,n., A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or termites. See Termite. 
Termly,a., Occurring every term; as, a termly fee. 
Termor,n., Same as Termer, 2. 
Terpin,n., A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of turpentine.
Terrar,n., See 2d Terrier, 2. 
Terras,n., See /rass.
Terrel,n., A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc., correspond to those of the earth. 
Terret,n., One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through which the reins pass. 
Terror,n., Extreme fear; fear that agitates body and mind; violent dread; fright.
Tested,imp. & p. p., of Test
Testae,pl. , of Testa
Tester,n., A headpiece; a helmet.
Testes,n., pl. of Teste, or of Testis. 
Testif,a., Testy; headstrong; obstinate.
Testes,pl. , of Testis
Testis,n., A testicle.
Teston,n., A tester; a sixpence.
Tetany,n., A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms. 
Tetard,n., A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus
Tetaug,n., See Tautog.
Tetchy,a., See Techy.
Tether,n., A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits. 
Tethys,n., A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad, fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills. Some of the species become a foot long and are brilliantly colored. 
Tetrad,n., The number four; a collection of four things; a quaternion.
Tetric,a., Alt. of Tetrical
Tetrol,n., A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. 
Tetryl,n., Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
Tetter,n., A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes.
Tettix,n., The cicada.
Teufit,n., The lapwing; -- called also teuchit.
Teuton,n., One of an ancient German tribe; later, a name applied to any member of the Germanic race in Europe; now used to designate a German, Dutchman, Scandinavian, etc., in distinction from a Celt or one of a Latin race. 
Tewing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tew
Tewhit,n., The lapwing; -- called also teewheep.
Tewtaw,v. t., To beat; to break, as flax or hemp. 
Thaler,n., A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or about 73 cents. 
Thalia,n., That one of the nine Muses who presided over comedy.
Thalli,pl. , of Thallus
Tammuz,n., A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew idolatresses held an annual lamentation. This deity has been conjectured to be the same with the Phoenician Adon, or Adonis. 
Thamyn,n., An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi
Thanks,pl. , of Thank
Tharms,n. pl., Twisted guts.
Tharos,n., A small American butterfly (Phycoides tharos
Thatch,n., Straw, rushes, or the like, used for making or covering the roofs of buildings, or of stacks of hay or grain. 
Thawed,imp. & p. p., of Thaw
Theave,n., A ewe lamb of the first year; also, a sheep three years old. 
Theban,a., Of or pertaining to Thebes.
Thecae,pl. , of Theca
Thecal,a., Of or pertaining to a theca; as, a thecal abscess. 
Thecla,n., Any one of many species of small delicately colored butterflies belonging to Thecla and allied genera; -- called also hairstreak, and elfin. 
Thedom,n., Success; fortune; luck; chance.
Theine,n., See Caffeine. Called also theina.
Theism,n., The belief or acknowledgment of the existence of a God, as opposed to atheism, pantheism, or polytheism. 
Theist,n., One who believes in the existence of a God; especially, one who believes in a personal God; -- opposed to atheist. 
Themis,n., The goddess of law and order; the patroness of existing rights.
Thenal,a., Alt. of Thenar
Thenar,a., Of or pertaining to the thenar; corresponding to thenar; palmar.
Thence,adv., From that place.
Theory,n., A doctrine, or scheme of things, which terminates in speculation or contemplation, without a view to practice; hypothesis; speculation. 
Theses,pl. , of Thesis
Thesis,n., A position or proposition which a person advances and offers to maintain, or which is actually maintained by argument. 
Thewed,a., Furnished with thews or muscles; as, a well-thewed limb. 
Thibet,, A fabric made of coarse goat's hair; a kind of camlet.
Thible,n., A slice; a skimmer; a spatula; a pudding stick.
Thider,adv., Thither.
Thieve,v. t. & i., To practice theft; to steal.
Thinly,a., In a thin manner; in a loose, scattered manner; scantily; not thickly; as, ground thinly planted with trees; a country thinly inhabited. 
Thirst,n., A sensation of dryness in the throat associated with a craving for liquids, produced by deprivation of drink, or by some other cause (as fear, excitement, etc.
Thirty,a., Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days. 
Tholed,imp. & p. p., of Thole
Thooid,a., Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovels and the dogs. 
Thoral,a., Of or pertaining to a bed.
Thorax,n., The part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing that part of the body cavity the walls of which are supported by the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, and the sternum, and which the heart and lungs are situated; the chest. 
Thoria,n., A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide of thorium; -- formerly called also thorina. 
Thoric,a., Of or pertaining to thorium; designating the compounds of thorium.
Thorny,superl., Full of thorns or spines; rough with thorns; spiny; as, a thorny wood; a thorny tree; a thorny crown. 
Thorow,prep., Through.
Thorpe,n., A group of houses in the country; a small village; a hamlet; a dorp; -- now chiefly occurring in names of places and persons; as, Althorp, Mablethorpe. 
Though,conj., Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if. 
Thowel,n., Alt. of Thowl
Thrack,v. t., To load or burden; as, to thrack a man with property. 
Thrall,n., A slave; a bondman.
Thrash,v. t., Alt. of Thresh
Thresh,v. t., To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain
Thrash,v. t., Alt. of Thresh
Thresh,v. t., To practice thrashing grain or the like; to perform the business of beating grain from straw; as, a man who thrashes well. 
Thrast,p. p., of Thraste
Thrave,n., Twenty-four (in some places, twelve
Thread,n., A very small twist of flax, wool, cotton, silk, or other fibrous substance, drawn out to considerable length; a compound cord consisting of two or more single yarns doubled, or joined together, and twisted. 
Threap,v. t., To call; to name.
Threat,n., The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; menace; threatening; denunciation. 
Threne,n., Lamentation; threnody; a dirge.
Threpe,v. t., To call; to term.
Thresh,v. t. & i., Same as Thrash.
Threst,p. p. &, of Threste
Thrice,adv., Three times.
Thrift,n., A thriving state; good husbandry; economical management in regard to property; frugality.
Thrill,n., A warbling; a trill.
Throng,imp., of Thring
Thring,v. t. & i., To press, crowd, or throng. 
Thrips,n., Any one of numerous small species of Thysanoptera, especially those which attack useful plants, as the grain thrips (Thrips cerealium
Thrist,n., Thrist.
Throve,imp., of Thrive
Thrive,v. i., To prosper by industry, economy, and good management of property; to increase in goods and estate; as, a farmer thrives by good husbandry. 
Throat,n., The part of the neck in front of, or ventral to, the vertebral column. 
Throne,n., A chair of state, commonly a royal seat, but sometimes the seat of a prince, bishop, or other high dignitary. 
Throng,n., A multitude of persons or of living beings pressing or pressed into a close body or assemblage; a crowd.
Throve,, imp. of Thrive.
Thrown,p. p., of Throw
Throwe,n., A turning lathe.
Thrown,, a. & p. p. from Throw, v. 
Thrush,n., Any one of numerous species of singing birds belonging to Turdus and allied genera. They are noted for the sweetness of their songs.
Thrust,n. & v., Thrist.
Thryes,a., Thrice.
Thulia,n., Oxide of thulium.
Thunny,n., The tunny.
Thurgh,prep., Through.
Thurst,n., The ruins of the fallen roof resulting from the removal of the pillars and stalls.
Thuyin,n., A substance extracted from trees of the genus Thuja, or Thuya, and probably identical with quercitrin. 
Thwack,v. t., To strike with something flat or heavy; to bang, or thrash: to thump. 
Thwart,a., Situated or placed across something else; transverse; oblique.
Thwite,v. t., To cut or clip with a knife; to whittle.
Thyine,, The fragrant and beautiful wood of a North African tree (Callitris quadrivalvis
Thymic,a., Of or pertaining to the thymus gland.
Thymol,n., A phenol derivative of cymene, C10H13.OH, isomeric with carvacrol, found in oil of thyme, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a pleasant aromatic odor and strong antiseptic properties; -- called also hydroxy cymene. 
Thymus,a., Of, pertaining to, or designating, the thymus gland. 
Thyrse,n., A thyrsus.
Thyrsi,pl. , of Thyrsus
Thysbe,n., A common clearwing moth (Hemaris thysbe
Tibiae,pl. , of Tibia
Tibial,a., Of or pertaining to a tibia.
Tibrie,n., The pollack.
Ticked,imp. & p. p., of Tick
Ticken,n., See Ticking.
Ticker,n., One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc. 
Ticket,v., A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something. 
Tickle,v. t., To touch lightly, so as to produce a peculiar thrilling sensation, which commonly causes laughter, and a kind of spasm which become dengerous if too long protracted. 
Tidbit,n., A delicate or tender piece of anything eatable; a delicious morsel.
Tidder,v. t., Alt. of Tiddle
Tiddle,v. t., To use with tenderness; to fondle.
Tidife,n., The blue titmouse.
Tidily,adv., In a tidy manner.
Tiding,n., Tidings.
Tidley,n., The wren.
Tidies,pl. , of Tidy
Tidied,imp. & p. p., of Tidy
Tiebar,n., A flat bar used as a tie.
Tierce,n., A cask whose content is one third of a pipe; that is, forty-two wine gallons; also, a liquid measure of forty-two wine, or thirty-five imperial, gallons. 
Tiewig,n., A wig having a tie or ties, or one having some of the curls tied up; also, a wig tied upon the head. 
Tiffed,imp. & p. p., of Tiff
Tiffin,n., A lunch, or slight repast between breakfast and dinner; -- originally, a Provincial English word, but introduced into India, and brought back to England in a special sense. 
Tights,n. pl., Close-fitting garments, especially for the lower part of the body and the legs. 
Tiglic,a., Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7CO2H (called also methyl crotonic acid
Tiling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tile
Tilery,n., A place where tiles are made or burned; a tile kiln.
Tiling,n., A surface covered with tiles, or composed of tiles. 
Tilled,imp. & p. p., of Till
Tiller,v. t., One who tills; a husbandman; a cultivator; a plowman.
Tilley,, Alt. of Tilley seed
Tillet,n., A bag made of thin glazed muslin, used as a wrapper for dress goods. 
Tillow,v. i., See 3d Tiller.
Tilmus,n., Floccillation.
Tilted,imp. & p. p., of Tilt
Tilter,n., One who tilts, or jousts; hence, one who fights. 
Timbal,n., A kettledrum. See Tymbal.
Timber,n., A certain quantity of fur skins, as of martens, ermines, sables, etc., packed between boards; being in some cases forty skins, in others one hundred and twenty; -- called also timmer. 
Timbre,n., See 1st Timber.
Timing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Time
Timely,superl., Being or occurring in good time; sufficiently early; seasonable.
Timist,n., A performer who keeps good time.
Timmer,n., Same as 1st Timber.
Timous,a., Timely; seasonable.
Tinned,imp. & p. p., of Tin
Tincal,n., Crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet. It was once the chief source of boric compounds. Cf. Borax. 
Tindal,n., A petty officer among lascars, or native East Indian sailors; a boatswain's mate; a cockswain. 
Tinder,n., Something very inflammable, used for kindling fire from a spark, as scorched linen. 
Tinean,n., Any species of Tinea, or of the family Tineidae, which includes numerous small moths, many of which are injurious to woolen and fur goods and to cultivated plants. Also used adjectively. 
Tineid,n., Same as Tinean.
Tinged,imp. & p. p., of Tinge
Tinger,n., One who, or that which, tinges. 
Tingid,a., Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis.
Tingis,n., A genus of small hemipterous insects which injure trees by sucking the sap from the leaves. See Illustration in Appendix.
Tingle,v. i., To feel a kind of thrilling sensation, as in hearing a shrill sound. 
Tinker,n., A mender of brass kettles, pans, and other metal ware. 
Tinkle,n., The common guillemot.
Tinmen,pl. , of Tinman
Tinman,n., A manufacturer of tin vessels; a dealer in tinware.
Tinned,a., Covered, or plated, with tin; as, a tinned roof; tinned iron. 
Tinnen,a., Made or consisting of tin.
Tinner,n., One who works in a tin mine.
Tinsel,n., A shining material used for ornamental purposes; especially, a very thin, gauzelike cloth with much gold or silver woven into it; also, very thin metal overlaid with a thin coating of gold or silver, brass foil, or the like. 
Tinted,imp. & p. p., of Tint
Tintle,n., The wren.
Tipped,imp. & p. p., of Tip
Tipcat,n., A game in which a small piece of wood pointed at both ends, called a cat, is tipped, or struck with a stick or bat, so as to fly into the air. 
Tipper,n., A kind of ale brewed with brackish water obtained from a particular well; -- so called from the first brewer of it, one Thomas Tipper. 
Tippet,n., A cape, or scarflike garment for covering the neck, or the neck and shoulders, -- usually made of fur, cloth, or other warm material. 
Tipple,v. i., To drink spirituous or strong liquors habitually; to indulge in the frequent and improper used of spirituous liquors; especially, to drink frequently in small quantities, but without absolute drunkeness. 
Tiptoe,n., The end, or tip, of the toe. 
Tiptop,n., The highest or utmost degree; the best of anything.
Tipula,n., Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slender bodies. See Crane fly, under Crane. 
Tirade,n., A declamatory strain or flight of censure or abuse; a rambling invective; an oration or harangue abounding in censorious and bitter language.
Tiring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tire
Tirrit,n., A word from the vocabulary of Mrs. Quickly, the hostess in Shakespeare's Henry IV., probably meaning terror. 
Tirwit,n., The lapwing.
Tisane,n., See Ptisan.
Tissue,n., A woven fabric.
Titbit,n., Same as Tidbit.
Tithed,imp. & p. p., of Tithe
Tither,n., One who collects tithes.
Tithly,a., Tightly; nimbly.
Titled,imp. & p. p., of Title
Titler,n., A large truncated cone of refined sugar.
Titmal,n., The blue titmouse.
Titter,v. t., To laugh with the tongue striking against the root of the upper teeth; to laugh with restraint, or without much noise; to giggle. 
Tittle,n., A particle; a minute part; a jot; an iota.
Tmesis,n., The separation of the parts of a compound word by the intervention of one or more words; as, in what place soever, for whatsoever place. 
Tobias,, The lant, or sand eel. 
Tobine,n., A stout twilled silk used for dresses.
Tocher,n., Dowry brought by a bride to her husband.
Tockay,n., A spotted lizard native of India.
Tocsin,n., An alarm bell, or the ringing of a bell for the purpose of alarm. 
Toddle,v. i., To walk with short, tottering steps, as a child. 
Toeing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Toe
Toffee,n., Alt. of Toffy
Tofore,prep., Alt. of Toforn
Toforn,prep., Before.
Toggle,n., A wooden pin tapering toward both ends with a groove around its middle, fixed transversely in the eye of a rope to be secured to any other loop or bight or ring; a kind of button or frog capable of being readily engaged and disengaged for temporary purposes. 
Toiled,imp. & p. p., of Toil
Toiler,n., One who toils, or labors painfully. 
Toilet,n., A covering of linen, silk, or tapestry, spread over a table in a chamber or a dressing room. 
Tolane,n., A hydrocarbon, C14H10, related both to the acetylene and the aromatic series, and produced artificially as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl acetylene. 
Toling,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tole
Toledo,n., A sword or sword blade made at Toledo in Spain, which city was famous in the 16th and 17th centuries for the excellence of its weapons. 
Tolled,imp. & p. p., of Toll
Toller,n., A toll gatherer.
Tolmen,n., See Dolmen.
Tolsey,n., A tollbooth; also, a merchants' meeting place, or exchange. 
Toltec,n., One of a race which formerly occupied Mexico.
Toluic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, one of three metameric acids, CH3.C6H4.CO2H, which are related to toluene and analogous to benzoic acids. They are white crystalline substances, and are called respectively orthotoluic acid, metatoluic acid, and paratoluic acid. 
Toluid,n., A complex double tolyl and toluidine derivative of glycocoll, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 
Toluol,n., Alt. of Toluole
Toluyl,n., Any one of the three hypothetical radicals corresponding to the three toluic acids.
Tomato,n., The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun
Tombed,imp. & p. p., of Tomb
Tombac,n., An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, / Dutch, brass. It is very malleable and ductile, and when beaten into thin leaves is sometimes called Dutch metal. The addition of arsenic makes white tombac. 
Tomboy,n., A romping girl; a hoiden.
Tomcat,n., A male cat, especially when full grown or of large size. 
Tomcod,n., A small edible American fish (Microgadus tomcod
Tomium,n., The cutting edge of the bill of a bird.
Tomorn,adv., To-morrow.
Tompon,n., An inking pad used in lithographic printing.
Tomrig,n., A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy. 
Tomtit,n., A titmouse, esp. the blue titmouse. 
Toning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tone
Tongue,n., an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch.
Tonguy,a., Ready or voluble in speaking; as, a tonguy speaker. 
Tonite,n., An explosive compound; a preparation of gun cotton.
Tonous,a., Abounding in tone or sound.
Tonsil,n., One of the two glandular organs situated in the throat at the sides of the fauces. The tonsils are sometimes called the almonds, from their shape. 
Tonsor,n., A barber.
Tonies,pl. , of Tony
tooled,imp. & p. p., of Tool
Tooted,imp. & p. p., of Toot
Tooter,n., One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn.
Toothy,a., Toothed; with teeth.
Toozoo,n., The ringdove.
Topped,imp. & p. p., of Top
Toping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tope
Topful,a., Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull. 
Tophet,n., A place lying east or southeast of Jerusalem, in the valley of Hinnom. 
Tophin,n., Same as Toph.
Tophus,n., One of the mineral concretions about the joints, and in other situations, occurring chiefly in gouty persons. They consist usually of urate of sodium; when occurring in the internal organs they are also composed of phosphate of calcium. 
Topmem,pl. , of Topman
Topman,n., See Topsman, 2. 
Topple,v. i., To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down.
Toquet,n., See Toque, 1. 
Torace,v. t., Alt. of Torase
Torase,v. t., To scratch to pieces.
Torose,a., Cylindrical with alternate swellings and contractions; having the surface covered with rounded prominences.
Torous,a., Torose.
Torpid,a., Having lost motion, or the power of exertion and feeling; numb; benumbed; as, a torpid limb. 
Torpor,n., Loss of motion, or of the motion; a state of inactivity with partial or total insensibility; numbness. 
Torque,n., A collar or neck chain, usually twisted, especially as worn by ancient barbaric nations, as the Gauls, Germans, and Britons. 
Torrid,a., Parched; dried with heat; as, a torrid plain or desert. 
Torril,n., A worthless woman; also, a worthless horse. 
Torsal,n., A torsel.
Torsel,n., A plate of timber for the end of a beam or joist to rest on.
Torsos,pl. , of Torso
Torula,n., A chain of special bacteria. (b
Torved,a., Stern; grim. See Torvous.
Tories,pl. , of Tory
Tossed,imp. & p. p., of Toss
Tossel,n., See Tassel.
Tosser,n., Ohe who tosser.
Toting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tote
Totear,v. t., To tear or rend in pieces.
Totter,v. i., To shake so as to threaten a fall; to vacillate; to be unsteady; to stagger; as,an old man totters with age. 
Toucan,n., Any one of numerous species of fruit-eating birds of tropical America belonging to Ramphastos, Pteroglossus, and allied genera of the family Ramphastidae. They have a very large, but light and thin, beak, often nearly as long as the body itself. Most of the species are brilliantly colored with red, yellow, white, and black in striking contrast. 
Touchy,a., Peevish; irritable; irascible; techy; apt to take fire.
Touite,n., The wood warbler.
Toupee,n., Alt. of Toupet
Toupet,n., A little tuft; a curl or artificial lock of hair.
Toured,imp. & p. p., of Tour
Toused,imp. & p. p., of Touze
Tousel,v. t., Same as Tousle.
Touser,n., One who touses.
Tousle,v. t., To put into disorder; to tumble; to touse.
Touter,n., One who seeks customers, as for an inn, a public conveyance, shops, and the like: hence, an obtrusive candidate for office. 
Towing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tow
Towage,v., The act of towing.
Towall,n., A towel.
Toward,prep., Alt. of Towards
Towery,a., Having towers; adorned or defended by towers.
Towhee,n., The chewink.
Towned,a., Having towns; containing many towns.
Towser,n., A familiar name for a dog.
Toxine,n., A poisonous product formed by pathogenic bacteria, as a toxic proteid or poisonous ptomaine. 
toying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Toy
Toyear,adv., This year.
Toyful,a., Full of trifling play.
Toyish,a., Sportive; trifling; wanton.
Toyman,n., One who deals in toys.
Trabea,n., A toga of purple, or ornamented with purple horizontal stripes. -- worn by kings, consuls, and augurs. 
traced,imp. & p. p., of Trace
Tracer,n., One who, or that which, traces. 
Traded,imp. & p. p., of Trade
Trader,n., One engaged in trade or commerce; one who makes a business of buying and selling or of barter; a merchant; a trafficker; as, a trader to the East Indies; a country trader. 
trades,, Alt. of Trade union
Tragic,a., Alt. of Tragical
Tragus,n., The prominence in front of the external opening of the ear. See Illust. under Ear.
Trainy,a., Belonging to train oil.
Trajet,n., Alt. of Trajetry
Trance,n., A tedious journey.
Transe,n., See Trance.
Trapan,n., A snare; a stratagem; a trepan. See 3d Trepan.
Trapes,n., A slattern; an idle, sluttish, or untidy woman. 
Trappy,a., Same as Trappous.
Trashy,superl., Like trash; containing much trash; waste; rejected; worthless; useless; as, a trashy novel. 
Traunt,v. i., Same as Trant.
Travel,v. i., To labor; to travail.
Treaty,n., The act of treating for the adjustment of differences, as for forming an agreement; negotiation. 
Treble,a., Threefold; triple.
Trebly,adv., In a treble manner; with a threefold number or quantity; triply.
Trefle,n., A species of time; -- so called from its resemblance in form to a trefoil.
Treget,n., Guile; trickery.
Tremex,n., A genus of large hymenopterous insects allied to the sawflies. The female lays her eggs in holes which she bores in the trunks of trees with her large and long ovipositor, and the larva bores in the wood. See Illust. of Horntail. 
Tremor,v., A trembling; a shivering or shaking; a quivering or vibratory motion; as, the tremor of a person who is weak, infirm, or old. 
Trench,v. t., To cut; to form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, or the like. 
Trepan,n., A crown-saw or cylindrical saw for perforating the skull, turned, when used, like a bit or gimlet. See Trephine. 
Trepid,a., Trembling; quaking.
Tresor,n., Treasure.
Tressy,a., Abounding in tresses.
Tretis,n., Alt. of Tretys
Tretys,n., A treatise; also, a treaty. 
Tretis,a., Alt. of Tretys
Tretys,a., Long and well-proportioned; nicely made; pretty.
Trevat,n., A weaver's cutting instrument; for severing the loops of the pile threads of velvet.
Trevet,n., A stool or other thing supported by three legs; a trivet.
Trewth,n., Truth.
Tribal,a., Of or pertaining to a tribe or tribes; as, a tribal scepter. 
Tricae,pl. , of Trica
Tricky,a., Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish.
Tricot,n., A fabric of woolen, silk, or cotton knitted, or women to resemble knitted work. 
Triens,n., A Roman copper coin, equal to one third of the as. See 3d As, 2. 
Trifid,a., Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into three parts; three-cleft. 
Trifle,n., A thing of very little value or importance; a paltry, or trivial, affair. 
Trigon,n., A figure having three angles; a triangle.
Trigyn,n., Any one of the Trigynia.
Trillo,n., A trill or shake. See Trill.
Trimly,adv., In a trim manner; nicely.
Trinal,a., Threefold.
Tringa,n., A genus of limicoline birds including many species of sandpipers. See Dunlin, Knot, and Sandpiper. 
Triole,n., Same as Triplet.
Tripel,n., Same as Tripoli.
Triple,a., Consisting of three united; multiplied by three; threefold; as, a triple knot; a triple tie. 
Triply,adv., In a triple manner.
Tripod,n., Any utensil or vessel, as a stool, table, altar, caldron, etc., supported on three feet. 
Tripos,n., A tripod.
Triste,imp., of Trist
Tristy,a., See Trist, a. 
Triton,n., A fabled sea demigod, the son of Neptune and Amphitrite, and the trumpeter of Neptune. He is represented by poets and painters as having the upper part of his body like that of a man, and the lower part like that of a fish. He often has a trumpet made of a shell. 
Trityl,n., Propyl.
Triune,a., Being three in one; -- an epithet used to express the unity of a trinity of persons in the Godhead.
Trivet,n., A tree-legged stool, table, or other support; especially, a stand to hold a kettle or similar vessel near the fire; a tripod. 
Trocar,n., A stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy. 
Troche,n., A medicinal tablet or lozenge; strictly, one of circular form. 
Trochi,pl. , of Trochus
Trogon,n., Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidae. They are noted for the brilliant colors and the resplendent luster of their plumage.
Trogue,n., A wooden trough, forming a drain. 
Troili,pl. , of Troilus
Trojan,a., Of or pertaining to ancient Troy or its inhabitants.
Trolly,n., A form of truck which can be tilted, for carrying railroad materials, or the like. 
Trompe,n., A trumpet; a trump.
Trones,n., A steelyard.
Trophi,n. pl., The mouth parts of an insect, collectively, including the labrum, labium, maxillae, mandibles, and lingua, with their appendages. 
Trophy,n., A sign or memorial of a victory raised on the field of battle, or, in case of a naval victory, on the nearest land. Sometimes trophies were erected in the chief city of the conquered people. 
Tropic,a., Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine and certain other alkaloids, as a white crystalline substance slightly soluble in water. 
Trough,n., A long, hollow vessel, generally for holding water or other liquid, especially one formed by excavating a log longitudinally on one side; a long tray; also, a wooden channel for conveying water, as to a mill wheel. 
Troupe,n., A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera. 
Trouse,n., Trousers.
Trover,n., The gaining possession of any goods, whether by finding or by other means. 
Trowel,n., A mason's tool, used in spreading and dressing mortar, and breaking bricks to shape them. 
Truage,n., A pledge of truth or peace made on payment of a tax.
Truand,n. & a., See Truant.
Truant,n., One who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk. 
Trudge,v. i., To walk or march with labor; to jog along; to move wearily.
Truism,n., An undoubted or self-evident truth; a statement which is pliantly true; a proposition needing no proof or argument; -- opposed to falsism.
Trunch,n., A stake; a small post.
Trusty,superl., Admitting of being safely trusted; justly deserving confidence; fit to be confided in; trustworthy; reliable.
Truths,pl. , of Truth
Truthy,a., Truthful; likely; probable.
Trying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Try
Trygon,n., Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera.
Trying,a., Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position. 
Tsetse,n., A venomous two-winged African fly (Glossina morsitans
Tubbed,imp. & p. p., of Tub
Tubing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tube
Tubful,n., As much as a tub will hold; enough to fill a tub.
Tubing,n., The act of making tubes.
Tubmen,pl. , of Tubman
Tubman,n., One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer. Cf. Postman, 2. 
Tubule,n., A small pipe or fistular body; a little tube.
Tucked,imp. & p. p., of Tuck
Tucker,n., One who, or that which, tucks; specifically, an instrument with which tuck are made. 
Tucket,n., A slight flourish on a trumpet; a fanfare.
Tucuma,n., A Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum Tucuma
Tufted,imp. & p. p., of Tuft
Tugged,imp. & p. p., of Tug
Tugger,n., One who tugs.
Tumble,v. i., To roll over, or to and fro; to throw one's self about; as, a person on pain tumbles and tosses. 
Tumefy,v. t., To swell; to cause to swell, or puff up. 
Tumped,imp. & p. p., of Tump
Tumult,n., The commotion or agitation of a multitude, usually accompanied with great noise, uproar, and confusion of voices; hurly-burly; noisy confusion. 
Tumuli,pl. , of Tumulus
Tunned,imp. & p. p., of Tun
Tundra,n., A rolling, marshy, mossy plain of Northern Siberia. 
Tuning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Tune
Tunker,n., Same as Dunker.
Tunnel,n. ., A vessel with a broad mouth at one end, a pipe or tube at the other, for conveying liquor, fluids, etc., into casks, bottles, or other vessels; a funnel. 
Tupelo,n., A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora
Tupmen,pl. , of Tupman
Tupman,n., A man who breeds, or deals in tups. 
Turatt,n., The hare kangaroo.
Turban,n., A headdress worn by men in the Levant and by most Mohammedans of the male sex, consisting of a cap, and a sash, scarf, or shawl, usually of cotton or linen, wound about the cap, and sometimes hanging down the neck. 
Turbid,a., Having the lees or sediment disturbed; roiled; muddy; thick; not clear; -- used of liquids of any kind; as, turbid water; turbid wine. 
Turbit,n., The turbot.
Turbot,n., A large European flounder (Rhombus maximus
Turdus,n., A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes.
Tureen,n., A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at the table. 
Turves,pl. , of Turf
Turfed,imp. & p. p., of Turf
Turfen,a., Made of turf; covered with turf.
Turgid,a., Distended beyond the natural state by some internal agent or expansive force; swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated; tumid; -- especially applied to an enlarged part of the body; as, a turgid limb; turgid fruit. 
Turion,n., Same as Turio.
Turkey,n., An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia.
Turkic,a., Turkish.
Turkis,n., Turquois.
Turkle,n., A turtle.
Turkos,pl. , of Turko
Turned,imp. & p. p., of Turn
Turnep,n., See Turnip.
Turner,n., One who turns; especially, one whose occupation is to form articles with a lathe. 
Turney,n. & v., Tourney.
Turnip,v. t., The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus
Turnix,n., Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidae. These birds resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.
Turnus,n., A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, / Jasoniades, glaucus. The wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange-red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail. 
Turpin,n., A land tortoise.
Turrel,n., A certain tool used by coopers.
Turret,n., A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure. 
Turtle,n., The turtledove.
Turves,, pl. of Turf.
Tuscan,a., Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and Illust. of Capital. 
Tuscor,n., A tush of a horse.
Tusked,a., Furnished with tusks.
Tusker,n., An elephant having large tusks.
Tussac,, Tussock grass.
Tussah,, A silk cloth made from the cocoons of a caterpillar other than the common silkworm, much used in Bengal and China. 
Tussle,v. i. & t., To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with. 
Tutele,n., Tutelage.
Tutory,n., Tutorage.
Tutrix,n., A female guardian; a tutoress.
Tutsan,n., A plant of the genus Hypericum (H. Androsoemum
Tuyere,n., A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a forge. 
Twaddy,n., Idle trifling; twaddle.
Twaite,n., A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad.
Tweese,n., Alt. of Tweeze
Tweeze,n., A surgeon's case of instruments.
Twelve,a., One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen.
Twenty,a., One more that nineteen; twice; as, twenty men. 
Twibil,n., A kind of mattock, or ax; esp., a tool like a pickax, but having, instead of the points, flat terminations, one of which is parallel to the handle, the other perpendicular to it. 
Twiggy,a., Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full of twigs; abounding with shoots.
Twight,v. t., To twit.
Twilly,n., A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil. See Devil, n., 6, and Willy. 
Twined,imp. & p. p., of Twine
Twiner,n., Any plant which twines about a support.
Twinge,v. i., To pull with a twitch; to pinch; to tweak.
Twiste,, imp. of Twist.
Twitch,v. t., To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes. 
'Twixt,, An abbreviation of Betwixt, used in poetry, or in colloquial language. 
Tyburn,, A certificate given to one who prosecutes a felon to conviction, exempting him from certain parish and ward offices. 
Tycoon,n., The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of the Japanese army, was known to foreigners. 
Tyfoon,n., See Typhoon.
Tylari,pl. , of Tylarus
Tymbal,n., A kind of kettledrum.
Tympan,n., A drum.
Typing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Type
Typhon,n., According to Hesiod, the son of Typhoeus, and father of the winds, but later identified with him. 
Typhos,n., Typhus.
Typhus,n., A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks, attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by a copious eruption of red spots upon the body. Also called jail fever, famine fever, putrid fever, spottled fever, etc. See Jail fever, under Jail. 
Typify,v. t., To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance. 
Tyrant,n., An absolute ruler; a sovereign unrestrained by law or constitution; a usurper of sovereignty.
Tyrian,a., Of or pertaining to Tyre or its people.
Tystie,n., The black guillemot.
Tzetze,n., Same as Tsetse.
Uakari,n., Same as Ouakari.
Uberty,n., Fruitfulness; copiousness; abundance; plenty.
Ubiety,n., The quality or state of being in a place; local relation; position or location; whereness.
Uchees,n. pl., A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek confederation.
Udaler,n., Alt. of Udalman
Uglify,v. t., To disfigure; to make ugly.
Uglily,adv., In an ugly manner; with deformity.
Ugrian,n. pl., A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns. 
Ugsome,a., Ugly; offensive; loathsome.
Ullage,n., The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency. 
Ulluco,n., See Melluc/o.
Ulmate,n., A salt of ulmic acid.
Ulnage,n., Measurement by the ell; alnage.
Ulnare,n., One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man. 
Ulster,n., A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland. 
Ultima,a., Most remote; furthest; final; last.
Ultime,a., Ultimate; final.
Ultimo,, In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo. 
Ultion,n., The act of taking vengeance; revenge.
Umbery,a., Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold. 
Umbles,n. pl., The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general. 
Umbrae,pl. , of Umbra
Umbrel,n., An umbrella.
Umbril,n., A umbrere.
Umhofo,n., An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, / Rhinoceros, simus
Umlaut,n., The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed. 
Umpire,n., A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed. 
Unable,a., Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue. 
Unbank,v. t., To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank. 
Unbark,v. t., To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree. 
Unbear,v. t., To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse
Unbeat,v. t., To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.
Unbelt,v. t., To remove or loose the belt of; to ungird.
Unbent,imp. & p. p., of Unbend
Unbend,v. t., To free from flexure; to make, or allow to become, straight; to loosen; as, to unbend a bow. 
Unbias,v. t., To free from bias or prejudice.
Unbind,v. t., To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load. 
Unbody,v. t., To free from the body; to disembody.
Unbolt,v. t., To remove a bolt from; to unfasten; to unbar; to open.
Unbone,v. t., To deprive of bones, as meat; to bone. 
Unboot,v. t., To take off the boots from.
Unborn,a., Not born; no yet brought into life; being still to appear; future.
Unbred,a., Not begotten; unborn.
Unbung,v. t., To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask. 
Unbury,v. t., To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose. 
Uncage,v. t., To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage. 
Uncalm,v. t., To disturb; to disquiet.
Uncamp,v. t., To break up the camp of; to dislodge from camp.
Uncape,v. t., To remove a cap or cape from.
Uncart,v. t., To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload. 
Uncase,v. t., To take out of a case or covering; to remove a case or covering from; to uncover.
Unciae,pl. , of Uncia
Uncial,a., Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts. The letters are somewhat rounded, and the upstrokes and downstrokes usually have a slight inclination. These letters were used as early as the 1st century b. c., and were seldom used after the 10th century a. d., being superseded by the cursive style. 
Uncini,pl. , of Uncinus
Uncity,v. t., To deprive of the rank or rights of a city.
Unclew,v. t., To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin. 
Unclog,v. t., To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty. 
Unclue,v. t., To unwind; to untangle.
Uncock,v. t., To let down the cock of, as a firearm. 
Uncoif,v. t., To deprive of the coif or cap.
Uncoil,v. t., To unwind or open, as a coil of rope. 
Uncolt,v. t., To unhorse.
Uncord,v. t., To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package. 
Uncork,v. t., To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle. 
Uncous,a., Hooklike; hooked.
Uncowl,v. t., To divest or deprive of a cowl.
Uncult,a., Not cultivated; rude; illiterate.
Uncurl,v. t., To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly. 
Uncuth,a., Unknown; strange.
Undeaf,v. t., To free from deafness; to cause to hear.
Undeck,v. t., To divest of ornaments.
Undern,n., The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime, because formerly the principal meal was eaten at that hour; also, later, the afternoon; the time between dinner and supper. 
Undine,n., One of a class of fabled female water spirits who might receive a human soul by intermarrying with a mortal.
Undock,v. t., To take out of dock; as, to undock a ship. 
Undoer,n., One who undoes anything; especially, one who ruins another. 
Undone,, p. p. of Undo.
Undraw,v. t., To draw aside or open; to draw back.
Unduke,v. t., To deprive of dukedom.
Undull,v. t., To remove the dullness of; to clear.
Unduly,adv., In an undue manner.
Undust,v. t., To free from dust.
Unease,n., Want of ease; uneasiness.
Uneasy,a., Not easy; difficult.
Uneath,a., Not easy; difficult; hard.
Unedge,v. t., To deprive of the edge; to blunt.
Uneven,a., Not even; not level; not uniform; rough; as, an uneven road or way; uneven ground. 
Unface,v. t., To remove the face or cover from; to unmask; to expose.
Unfair,v. t., To deprive of fairness or beauty.
Unfile,v. t., To remove from a file or record.
Unfirm,a., Infirm.
Unfold,v. t., To open the folds of; to expand; to spread out; as, to unfold a tablecloth. 
Unfool,v. t., To restore from folly, or from being a fool. 
Unform,v. t., To decompose, or resolve into parts; to destroy the form of; to unmake. 
Unfree,a., Not free; held in bondage.
Unfret,v. t., To smooth after being fretted.
Unfurl,v. t. & i., To loose from a furled state; to unfold; to expand; to open or spread; as, to unfurl sails; to unfurl a flag. 
Ungain,a., Ungainly; clumsy; awkward; also, troublesome; inconvenient. 
Ungear,v. t., To strip of gear; to unharness; to throw out of gear.
Ungeld,n., A person so far out of the protection of the law, that if he were murdered, no geld, or fine, should be paid, or composition made by him that killed him. 
Ungird,v. t., To loose the girdle or band of; to unbind; to unload.
Ungive,v. t. & i., To yield; to relax; to give way.
Unglue,v. t., To separate, part, or open, as anything fastened with glue. 
Ungown,v. t., To strip of a gown; to unfrock.
Ungual,a., Of or pertaining to a nail, claw, talon, or hoof, or resembling one. 
Ungues,pl. , of Unguis
Unguis,n., The nail, claw, talon, or hoof of a finger, toe, or other appendage. 
Ungula,n., A hoof, claw, or talon. 
Unhair,v. t., To deprive of hair, or of hairs; as, to unhair hides for leather. 
Unhand,v. t., To loose from the hand; to let go.
Unhang,v. t., To divest or strip of hangings; to remove the hangings, as a room. 
Unhasp,v. t., To unloose the hasp of; to unclose.
Unhead,v. t., To take out the head of; as, to unhead a cask. 
Unheal,n., Misfortune; calamity; sickness.
Unhele,n., Same as Unheal, n. 
Unhelm,v. t., To deprive of the helm or helmet.
Unhide,v. t., To bring out from concealment; to discover.
Unhive,v. t. v. t., To drive or remove from a hive.
Unhold,v. t., To cease to hold; to unhand; to release.
Unholy,a., Not holy; unhallowed; not consecrated; hence, profane; wicked; impious. 
Unhood,v. t., To remove a hood or disguise from.
Unhook,v. t., To loose from a hook; to undo or open by loosening or unfastening the hooks of; as, to unhook a fish; to unhook a dress. 
Unhoop,v. t., To strip or deprive of hoops; to take away the hoops of.
Uniate,n., A member of the Greek Church, who nevertheless acknowledges the supremacy of the Pope of Rome; one of the United Greeks. Also used adjectively. 
Unific,a., Making one or unity; unifying.
Uniped,a., Having only one foot.
Unique,a., Being without a like or equal; unmatched; unequaled; unparalleled; single in kind or excellence; sole.
Unison,n., Harmony; agreement; concord; union.
United,imp. & p. p., of Unite
Uniter,n., One who, or that which, unites. 
Unjoin,v. t., To disjoin.
Unjust,a., Acting contrary to the standard of right; not animated or controlled by justice; false; dishonest; as, an unjust man or judge. 
Unkard,a., See Unked.
Unkent,a., Unknown; strange.
Unketh,a., Uncouth.
Unkind,a., Having no race or kindred; childless.
Unking,v. t., To cause to cease to be a king.
Unkiss,v. t., To cancel or annul what was done or sealed by a kiss; to cancel by a kiss.
Unknit,v. t., To undo or unravel what is knitted together.
Unknot,v. t., To free from knots; to untie.
Unknow,v. t., To cease to know; to lose the knowledge of.
Unlace,v. t., To loose by undoing a lacing; as, to unlace a shoe. 
Unlade,v. t., To take the load from; to take out the cargo of; as, to unlade a ship or a wagon. 
Unlaid,a., Not laid or placed; not fixed.
Unland,v. t., To deprive of lands.
Unlash,v. t., To loose, as that which is lashed or tied down. 
Unless,conj., Upon any less condition than (the fact or thing stated in the sentence or clause which follows
Unlike,a., Not like; dissimilar; diverse; having no resemblance; as, the cases are unlike. 
Unline,v. t., To take the lining out of; hence, to empty; as, to unline one's purse. 
Unlink,v. t., To separate or undo, as links; to uncoil; to unfasten. 
Unlive,v. t., To //ve in a contrary manner, as a life; to live in a manner contrary to. 
Unload,v. t., To take the load from; to discharge of a load or cargo; to disburden; as, to unload a ship; to unload a beast. 
Unlock,v. t., To unfasten, as what is locked; as, to unlock a door or a chest. 
Unlook,v. t., To recall or retract, as a look. 
Unlord,v. t., To deprive of the rank or position of a lord.
Unlove,v. t., To cease to love; to hate.
Unlust,n., Listlessness; disinclination.
Unlute,v. t., To separate, as things cemented or luted; to take the lute or the clay from. 
Unmade,a., Not yet made or formed; as, an unmade grave. 
Unmake,v. t., To destroy the form and qualities of; to deprive of being; to uncreate.
Unmask,v. t., To strip of a mask or disguise; to lay open; to expose.
Unmeet,a., Not meet or fit; not proper; unbecoming; unsuitable; -- usually followed by for.
Unmold,v. t., Alt. of Unmould
Unmoor,v. t., To cause to ride with one anchor less than before, after having been moored by two or more anchors. 
Unnail,v. t., To remove the nails from; to unfasten by removing nails.
Unnear,prep., Not near; not close to; at a distance from.
Unnest,v. t., To eject from a nest; to unnestle.
Unowed,a., Ownerless.
Unpack,v. t., To separate and remove, as things packed; to open and remove the contents of; as, to unpack a trunk. 
Unpick,v. t., To pick out; to undo by picking.
Unpity,n., Want of piety.
Unplat,v. t., To take out the folds or twists of, as something previously platted; to unfold; to unwreathe. 
Unpope,v. t., To divest of the character, office, or authority of a pope. 
Unpray,v. t., To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayed for. 
Unprop,v. t., To remove a prop or props from; to deprive of support.
Unpure,a., Not pure; impure.
Unread,a., Not read or perused; as, an unread book. 
Unreal,a., Not real; unsubstantial; fanciful; ideal.
Unrein,v. t., To loosen the reins of; to remove restraint from.
Unrest,n., Want of rest or repose; unquietness; sleeplessness; uneasiness; disquietude.
Unripe,a., Not ripe; as, unripe fruit. 
Unrobe,v. t. & i., To disrobe; to undress; to take off the robes.
Unroll,v. t., To open, as what is rolled or convolved; as, to unroll cloth; to unroll a banner. 
Unroof,v. t., To strip off the roof or covering of, as a house. 
Unroot,v. t., To tear up by the roots; to eradicate; to uproot.
Unrude,a., Not rude; polished.
Unruly,superl., Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed to violate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy; unruly boy; unruly conduct. 
Unseal,v. t., To break or remove the seal of; to open, as what is sealed; as, to unseal a letter. 
Unseam,v. t., To open the seam or seams of; to rip; to cut; to cut open.
Unseat,v. t., To throw from one's seat; to deprive of a seat.
Unseel,v. t., To open, as the eyes of a hawk that have been seeled; hence, to give light to; to enlighten. 
Unseem,v. i., Not to seem.
Unseen,a., Not seen or discovered.
Unsely,a., Not blessed or happy; wretched; unfortunate.
Unshed,a., Not parted or divided, as the hair. 
Unshet,v. t., To unshut.
Unship,v. t., To take out of a ship or vessel; as, to unship goods. 
Unshot,v. t., To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload. 
Unshut,v. t., To open, or throw open. 
Unsoft,a., Not soft; hard; coarse; rough.
Unsoot,a., Not sweet.
Unsoul,v. t., To deprive of soul, spirit, or principle. 
Unspar,v. t., To take the spars, stakes, or bars from. 
Unsped,a., Not performed; not dispatched.
Unspin,v. t., To untwist, as something spun. 
Unstep,v. t., To remove, as a mast, from its step. 
Unstop,v. t., To take the stopple or stopper from; as, to unstop a bottle or a cask. 
Unsuit,v. t., Not to suit; to be unfit for.
Untack,v. t., To separate, as what is tacked; to disjoin; to release. 
Unteam,v. t., To unyoke a team from.
Untent,v. t., To bring out of a tent.
Untidy,a., Unseasonable; untimely.
Untile,v. t., To take the tiles from; to uncover by removing the tiles.
Untime,n., An unseasonable time.
Untold,a., Not told; not related; not revealed; as, untold secrets. 
Untomb,v. t., To take from the tomb; to exhume; to disinter.
Untrue,a., Not true; false; contrary to the fact; as, the story is untrue. 
Untuck,v. t., To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold. 
Untune,v. t., To make incapable of harmony, or of harmonious action; to put out of tune. 
Unturn,v. t., To turn in a reserve way, especially so as to open something; as, to unturn a key. 
Unused,a., Not used; as, an unused book; an unused apartment. 
Unvail,v. t. & i., See Unveil.
Unveil,v. t., To remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face. 
Unvote,v. t., To reverse or annul by vote, as a former vote. 
Unware,a., Unaware; not foreseeing; being off one's guard.
Unwarm,v. t., To lose warmth; to grow cold.
Unwarp,v. t., To restore from a warped state; to cause to be linger warped.
Unwary,a., Not vigilant against danger; not wary or cautious; unguarded; precipitate; heedless; careless.
Unweld,a., Alt. of Unweldy
Unwell,a., Not well; indisposed; not in good health; somewhat ill; ailing.
Unwild,v. t., To tame; to subdue.
Unwill,v. t., To annul or reverse by an act of the will.
Unwind,v. t., To wind off; to loose or separate, as what or convolved; to untwist; to untwine; as, to unwind thread; to unwind a ball of yarn. 
Unwise,a., Not wise; defective in wisdom; injudicious; indiscreet; foolish; as, an unwise man; unwise kings; unwise measures. 
Unwish,v. t., To wish not to be; to destroy by wishing.
Unwist,a., Not known; unknown.
Unwont,a., Unwonted; unused; unaccustomed.
Unwork,v. t., To undo or destroy, as work previously done. 
Unwrap,v. t., To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded. 
Unwray,v. t., See Unwrie.
Unwrie,v. t., To uncover.
Unyoke,v. t., To loose or free from a yoke.
Upbear,v. t., To bear up; to raise aloft; to support in an elevated situation; to sustain.
Upbind,v. t., To bind up.
Upblow,v. t., To inflate.
Upcast,a., Cast up; thrown upward; as, with upcast eyes. 
Upcoil,v. t. & i., To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil. 
Upcurl,v. t., To curl up.
Updive,v. i., To spring upward; to rise.
Updraw,v. t., To draw up.
Upfill,v. t., To fill up.
Upflow,v. i., To flow or stream up.
Upgaze,v. i., To gaze upward.
Upgive,v. t., To give up or out.
Upgrow,v. i., To grow up.
Upgush,n., A gushing upward.
Uphand,a., Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge. 
Uphang,v. t., To hang up.
Uphasp,v. t., To hasp or faster up; to close; as, sleep uphasps the eyes. 
Upheld,, imp. & p. p. of Uphold.
Uphill,adv., Upwards on, or as on, a hillside; as, to walk uphill. 
Uphilt,v. t., To thrust in up to the hilt; as, to uphilt one's sword into an enemy. 
Uphold,v. t., To hold up; to lift on high; to elevate.
Uphroe,n., Same as Euphroe.
Upland,n., High land; ground elevated above the meadows and intervals which lie on the banks of rivers, near the sea, or between hills; land which is generally dry; -- opposed to lowland, meadow, marsh, swamp, interval, and the like. 
Uplead,v. t., To lead upward.
Uplean,v. i., To lean or incline upon anything.
Uplift,v. t., To lift or raise aloft; to raise; to elevate; as, to uplift the arm; to uplift a rock. 
Uplock,v. t., To lock up.
Uplook,v. i., To look or gaze up.
Upmost,a., Highest; topmost; uppermost.
Uppent,a., A Pent up; confined.
Uppile,v. t., To pile, or heap, up. 
Uppish,a., Proud; arrogant; assuming; putting on airs of superiority.
Upprop,v. t., To prop up.
Uprear,v. t., To raise; to erect.
Uprise,v. i., To rise; to get up; to appear from below the horizon.
Uprist,n., Uprising.
Uproar,n., Great tumult; violent disturbance and noise; noisy confusion; bustle and clamor.
Uproll,v. t., To roll up.
Uproot,v. t., To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate. 
Uprush,v. i., To rush upward.
Upseek,v. i., To seek or strain upward.
Upsend,v. t., To send, cast, or throw up. 
Upshot,n., Final issue; conclusion; the sum and substance; the end; the result; the consummation.
Upside,n., The upper side; the part that is uppermost.
Upskip,n., An upstart.
Upsoar,v. i., To soar or mount up.
Upstay,v. t., To sustain; to support.
Upstir,n., Insurrection; commotion; disturbance.
Upsway,v. t., To sway or swing aloft; as, to upsway a club. 
Uptake,v. t., To take into the hand; to take up; to help.
Uptear,v. t., To tear up.
Uptill,prep., To; against.
Uptown,adv., To or in the upper part of a town; as, to go uptown. 
Upturn,v. t., To turn up; to direct upward; to throw up; as, to upturn the ground in plowing. 
Upwaft,v. t., To waft upward.
Upward,adv., Alt. of Upwards
Upwind,v. t., To wind up.
Uraeum,n., The posterior half of an animal.
Uralic,a., Of or relating to the Ural Mountains.
Uramil,n., Murexan.
Urania,n., One of the nine Muses, daughter of Zeus by Mnemosyne, and patron of astronomy. 
Uranic,a., Of or pertaining to the heavens; celestial; astronomical.
Uranin,n., An alkaline salt of fluorescein, obtained as a brownish red substance, which is used as a dye; -- so called from the peculiar yellowish green fluorescence (resembling that of uranium glass
Uranus,n., The son or husband of Gaia (Earth
Uranyl,n., The radical UO2, conveniently regarded as a residue of many uranium compounds. 
Uratic,, Of or containing urates; as, uratic calculi. 
Urbane,a., Courteous in manners; polite; refined; elegant.
Urchin,n., A hedgehog.
Urchon,n., The urchin, or hedgehog. 
Ureide,n., Any one of the many complex derivatives of urea; thus, hydantoin, and, in an extended dense, guanidine, caffeine, et., are ureides. 
Ureter,n., The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder or cloaca. There are two ureters, one for each kidney. 
Uretic,a., Of or pertaining to the urine; diuretic; urinary; as, uretic medicine. 
Urging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Urge
Urgent,a., Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important. 
Urinal,n., A vessel for holding urine; especially, a bottle or tube for holding urine for inspection. 
Urnful,n., As much as an urn will hold; enough to fill an urn.
Urochs,n., See Aurochs.
Uropod,n., Any one of the abdominal appendages of a crustacean, especially one of the posterior ones, which are often larger than the rest, and different in structure, and are used chiefly in locomotion. See Illust. of Crustacea, and Stomapoda. 
Ursine,a., Of or pertaining to a bear; resembling a bear.
Ursula,n., A beautiful North American butterfly (Basilarchia, / Limenitis, astyanax
Urtica,n., A genus of plants including the common nettles. See Nettle, n. 
Usable,a., Capable of being used.
Usager,n., One who has the use of anything in trust for another.
Usance,v. t., Use; usage; employment.
Usbegs,n. pl., Alt. of Usbeks
Usbeks,n. pl., A Turkish tribe which about the close of the 15th century conquered, and settled in, that part of Asia now called Turkestan. 
Useful,a., Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts. 
Usself,n. pl., Ourselves.
Ustion,n., The act of burning, or the state of being burned. 
Usured,imp. & p. p., of Usure
Usurer,n., One who lends money and takes interest for it; a money lender.
Uterus,n., The organ of a female mammal in which the young are developed previous to birth; the womb.
Utlary,n., Outlawry.
Utmost,a., Situated at the farthest point or extremity; farthest out; most distant; extreme; as, the utmost limits of the land; the utmost extent of human knowledge. 
Utopia,n., An imaginary island, represented by Sir Thomas More, in a work called Utopia, as enjoying the greatest perfection in politics, laws, and the like. See Utopia, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction. 
Uveous,a., Resembling a grape.
Uvitic,a., Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH3C6H3(CO2H
Uvular,a., Of or pertaining to a uvula.
Vacant,a., Deprived of contents; not filled; empty; as, a vacant room. 
Vacate,v. t., To make vacant; to leave empty; to cease from filling or occupying; as, it was resolved by Parliament that James had vacated the throne of England; the tenant vacated the house. 
Vacher,n., A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman.
Vacuna,n., The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest. She was especially honored by the Sabines. 
Vacuum,n., A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum
Vadium,n., Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage.
Vagary,n., A wandering or strolling.
Vagina,n., A sheath; a theca; as, the vagina of the portal vein. 
Vagous,a., Wandering; unsettled.
Vailer,n., One who vails.
Vainly,adv., In a vain manner; in vain.
Vaisya,n., The third of the four great original castes among the Hindus, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas. See the Note under Caste, 1. 
Vakeel,n., A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador. 
Valise,n., A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau. 
Vallar,a., Of or pertaining to a rampart.
Valley,n., The space inclosed between ranges of hills or mountains; the strip of land at the bottom of the depressions intersecting a country, including usually the bed of a stream, with frequently broad alluvial plains on one or both sides of the stream. Also used figuratively. 
Vallum,n., A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification. 
Valued,imp. & p. p., of Value
Valuer,n., One who values; an appraiser.
Valure,n., Value.
Valved,a., Having a valve or valve; valvate.
Vamose,v. i. & t., To depart quickly; to depart from.
Vamped,imp. & p. p., of Vamp
Vamper,n., One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler.
Vamure,n., See Vauntmure.
Vandal,n., One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature. 
Vanglo,n., Benne (Sesamum orientale
Vanish,v. i., To pass from a visible to an invisible state; to go out of sight; to disappear; to fade; as, vapor vanishes from the sight by being dissipated; a ship vanishes from the sight of spectators on land. 
Vanity,n., The quality or state of being vain; want of substance to satisfy desire; emptiness; unsubstantialness; unrealness; falsity.
Vanjas,n., The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina
Vanner,n., A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner.
Vapory,a., Full of vapors; vaporous.
Varied,a., Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery. 
Varier,n., A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety.
Varify,v. t., To make different; to vary; to variegate.
Varlet,n., A servant, especially to a knight; an attendant; a valet; a footman. 
Varuna,n., The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune. He is regarded as regent of the west, and lord of punishment, and is represented as riding on a sea monster, holding in his hand a snaky cord or noose with which to bind offenders, under water. 
Varvel,n., In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses. 
Varied,imp. & p. p., of Vary
Vassal,n., The grantee of a fief, feud, or fee; one who holds land of superior, and who vows fidelity and homage to him; a feudatory; a feudal tenant. 
Vastel,n., See Wastel.
Vastly,adv., To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely.
Vatted,imp. & p. p., of Vat
Vatful,n., As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat.
Vaulty,a., Arched; concave.
Vaunce,v. i., To advance.
Vaward,n., The fore part; van.
Veadar,n., The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year. 
Vector,n., Same as Radius vector.
Veered,imp. & p. p., of Veer
Vegete,a., Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous.
Vehmic,a., Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals which flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th, usurping many of the functions of the government which were too weak to maintain law and order, and inspiring dread in all who came within their jurisdiction. 
Veiled,imp. & p. p., of Veil
Veined,imp. & p. p., of Vein
Veinal,a., Pertaining to veins; venous.
Veined,a., Full of veins; streaked; variegated; as, veined marble. 
Velate,a., Having a veil; veiled.
Vellet,n., Velvet.
Vellon,n., A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real.
Vellum,n., A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books. 
Velure,n., Velvet.
Velvet,n., A silk fabric, having a short, close nap of erect threads. Inferior qualities are made with a silk pile on a cotton or linen back. 
Venada,N., The pudu.
Venary,a., Of or, pertaining to hunting. 
Vended,imp. & p. p., of Vend
Vendee,n., The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor. 
Vender,n., One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor. 
Vendor,n., A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee.
Vendue,n., A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction. 
Veneer,v. t., To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively. 
Venene,a., Poisonous; venomous.
Venery,n., Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition.
Venger,n., An avenger.
Venial,a., Capable of being forgiven; not heinous; excusable; pardonable; as, a venial fault or transgression. 
Venire,, A judicial writ or precept directed to the sheriff, requiring him to cause a certain number of qualified persons to appear in court at a specified time, to serve as jurors in said court. 
Venite,n., The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches. Also, a musical composition adapted to this Psalm. 
Venose,a., Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond. 
Venous,a., Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood. 
Vented,imp. & p. p., of Vent
Venter,n., One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes. 
Venule,n., A small vein; a veinlet; specifically (Zool.
Venust,a., Beautiful.
Verbal,a., Expressed in words, whether spoken or written, but commonly in spoken words; hence, spoken; oral; not written; as, a verbal contract; verbal testimony. 
Verify,v. t., To make into a verb; to use as a verb; to verbalize.
Verdin,n., A small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps
Verdit,n., Verdict.
Verdoy,a., Charged with leaves, fruits, flowers, etc.; -- said of a border. 
Verged,imp. & p. p., of Verge
Verger,n., One who carries a verge, or emblem of office. 
Verify,v. t., To prove to be true or correct; to establish the truth of; to confirm; to substantiate.
Verily,adv., In very truth; beyond doubt or question; in fact; certainly.
Verine,n., An alkaloid obtained as a yellow amorphous substance by the decomposition of veratrine.
Verity,n., The quality or state of being true, or real; consonance of a statement, proposition, or other thing, with fact; truth; reality. 
Vermes,n. pl., An extensive artificial division of the animal kingdom, including the parasitic worms, or helminths, together with the nemerteans, annelids, and allied groups. By some writers the branchiopods, the bryzoans, and the tunicates are also included. The name was used in a still wider sense by Linnaeus and his followers. 
Vermil,n., See Vermeil.
Vermin,n. sing. & pl., An animal, in general. 
Vernal,a., Of or pertaining to the spring; appearing in the spring; as, vernal bloom. 
Verray,a., Very; true.
Verrel,n., See Ferrule.
Versal,a., Universal.
Versed,imp. & p. p., of Verse
Verser,n., A versifier.
Verset,n., A verse.
Versor,n., The turning factor of a quaternion.
Versus,prep., Against; as, John Doe versus Richard Roe; -- chiefly used in legal language, and abbreviated to v. or vs. 
Vertex,n., A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex.
Vervel,n., See Varvel.
Vervet,n., A South African monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus, / Lelandii
Vesica,n., A bladder.
Vesper,n., The evening star; Hesper; Venus, when seen after sunset; hence, the evening. 
Vessel,n., A hollow or concave utensil for holding anything; a hollow receptacle of any kind, as a hogshead, a barrel, a firkin, a bottle, a kettle, a cup, a bowl, etc. 
Vesses,n., Alt. of Vessets
Vested,imp. & p. p., of Vest
Vestal,a., Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste. 
Vested,a., Clothed; robed; wearing vestments.
Vestry,n., A room appendant to a church, in which sacerdotal vestments and sacred utensils are sometimes kept, and where meetings for worship or parish business are held; a sacristy; -- formerly called revestiary. 
Vetchy,a., Consisting of vetches or of pea straw.
Vetoes,pl. , of Veto
Vetoed,imp. & p. p., of Veto
Vetust,a., Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old.
Vexing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Vex
Viable,a., Capable of living; born alive and with such form and development of organs as to be capable of living; -- said of a newborn, or a prematurely born, infant. 
Vialed,imp. & p. p., of Vial
Viatic,a., Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling.
Vibrio,n., A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus. 
Vicary,n., A vicar.
Vicing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Vice
Vicety,n., Fault; defect; coarseness.
Vicine,a., Near; neighboring; vicinal.
Victim,n., A living being sacrificed to some deity, or in the performance of a religious rite; a creature immolated, or made an offering of. 
Victor,n., The winner in a contest; one who gets the better of another in any struggle; esp., one who defeats an enemy in battle; a vanquisher; a conqueror; -- often followed by art, rarely by of. 
Victus,n., Food; diet.
Vicu?a,n., Alt. of Vicugna
Vidame,n., One of a class of temporal officers who originally represented the bishops, but later erected their offices into fiefs, and became feudal nobles. 
Vidual,a., Of or pertaining to the state of a widow; widowed.
Vielle,n., An old stringed instrument played upon with a wheel; a hurdy-gurdy.
Vienna,, A caustic application made up of equal parts of caustic potash and quicklime; -- called also Vienna caustic.
Viewed,imp. & p. p., of View
Viewer,n., One who views or examines.
Viewly,a., Alt. of Viewsome
Vigily,n., A vigil.
Viking,n., One belonging to the pirate crews from among the Northmen, who plundered the coasts of Europe in the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries. 
Vilany,n., Villainy.
Vilify,v. t., To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to disgrace.
Vility,n., Vileness; baseness.
Villas,pl. , of Villa
Villan,n., A villain.
Villus,n., One of the minute papillary processes on certain vascular membranes; a villosity; as, villi cover the lining of the small intestines of many animals and serve to increase the absorbing surface. 
Vineal,a., Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines.
Vinery,n., A vineyard.
Vinose,a., Vinous.
Vinous,a., Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, a vinous taste. 
Vintry,n., A place where wine is sold.
Violet,n., Any plant or flower of the genus Viola, of many species. The violets are generally low, herbaceous plants, and the flowers of many of the species are blue, while others are white or yellow, or of several colors, as the pansy (Viola tricolor
Violin,n., A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle. 
Virago,n., A woman of extraordinary stature, strength, and courage; a woman who has the robust body and masculine mind of a man; a female warrior. 
Virent,a., Green; not withered.
Virger,n., See Verger.
Virgin,n., A woman who has had no carnal knowledge of man; a maid.
Virial,n., A certain function relating to a system of forces and their points of application, -- first used by Clausius in the investigation of problems in molecular physics. 
Virile,a., Having the nature, properties, or qualities, of an adult man; characteristic of developed manhood; hence, masterful; forceful; specifically, capable of begetting; -- opposed to womanly, feminine, and puerile; as, virile age, virile power, virile organs. 
Virole,n., A ring surrounding a bugle or hunting horn.
Virose,a., Having a nauseous odor; fetid; poisonous.
Virtue,n., Manly strength or courage; bravery; daring; spirit; valor.
Visaed,imp. & p. p., of Visa
Visage,n., The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face. 
Visard,n., A mask. See Visor.
Viscid,a., Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid. 
Viscin,n., A clear, viscous, tasteless substance extracted from the mucilaginous sap of the mistletoe (Viscum album
Viscum,n., A genus of parasitic shrubs, including the mistletoe of Europe. 
Viscus,n., One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen. 
Viseed,imp. & p. p., of Vise
Vishnu,n., A divinity of the modern Hindu trimurti, or trinity. He is regarded as the preserver, while Brahma is the creator, and Siva the destroyer of the creation. 
Vision,v., The act of seeing external objects; actual sight.
Visite,n., A light cape or short cloak of silk or lace worn by women in summer.
Visive,a., Of or pertaining to the sight; visual.
Vistas,pl. , of Vista
Visual,a., Of or pertaining to sight; used in sight; serving as the instrument of seeing; as, the visual nerve. 
Vitals,n. pl., Organs that are necessary for life; more especially, the heart, lungs, and brain. 
Vitric,a., Having the nature and qualities of glass; glasslike; -- distinguished from ceramic.
Vittae,pl. , of Vitta
Vivace,a. & adv., Brisk; vivacious; with spirit; -- a direction to perform a passage in a brisk and lively manner.
Vivary,n., A vivarium.
Vively,adv., In a lively manner.
Vivers,n. pl., Provisions; victuals.
Vivify,v. t., To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; to animate.
Vizard,n., A mask; a visor.
Vizier,n., A councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries.
Vocule,n., A short or weak utterance; a faint or feeble sound, as that heard on separating the lips in pronouncing p or b. 
Voiced,imp. & p. p., of Voice
Voided,imp. & p. p., of Void
Voider,n., One who, or that which, voids, /mpties, vacates, or annuls. 
Volage,a., Light; giddy.
Volant,a., Passing through the air upon wings, or as if upon wings; flying; hence, passing from place to place; current. 
Volary,n., See Volery.
Volery,n., A flight of birds.
Volley,n., A flight of missiles, as arrows, bullets, or the like; the simultaneous discharge of a number of small arms. 
Volume,n., A roll; a scroll; a written document rolled up for keeping or for use, after the manner of the ancients. 
Voluta,n., Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera. 
Volute,n., A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the Corinthian and Composite capitals. See Illust. of Capital, also Helix, and Stale. 
Volvox,n., A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the motion being produced by minute colorless cilia. It has been considered as belonging to the flagellate Infusoria, but is now referred to the vegetable kingdom, and each globule is considered a colony of many individuals. The commonest species is Volvox globator, often called globe animalcule. 
Volyer,n., A lurcher.
Vomica,n., An abscess cavity in the lungs.
Vomito,n., The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended with black vomit. See Black vomit. 
Voodoo,n., See Voodooism.
Vortex,n., A mass of fluid, especially of a liquid, having a whirling or circular motion tending to form a cavity or vacuum in the center of the circle, and to draw in towards the center bodies subject to its action; the form assumed by a fluid in such motion; a whirlpool; an eddy. 
Votary,a., Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised.
Voting,p. pr. & vb. n., of Vote
Votist,n., One who makes a vow.
Votive,a., Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet. 
Vowing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Vow
Voyage,n., Formerly, a passage either by sea or land; a journey, in general; but not chiefly limited to a passing by sea or water from one place, port, or country, to another; especially, a passing or journey by water to a distant place or country. 
Vulcan,n., The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; -- answering to the Greek Hephaestus. 
Vulgar,a., Of or pertaining to the mass, or multitude, of people; common; general; ordinary; public; hence, in general use; vernacular. 
Vulpes,n., A genus of Carnivora including the foxes.
Vulpic,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina
Waahoo,n., The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it.
Wabble,v. i., To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles. 
Wabbly,a., Inclined to wabble; wabbling.
Waddle,v. i., To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles. 
Wading,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wade
Wadmol,n., A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes. 
Wadset,n., A kind of pledge or mortgage.
Wadies,pl. , of Wady
Waffle,n., A thin cake baked and then rolled; a wafer.
Wafted,imp. & p. p., of Waft
Wafter,n., One who, or that which, wafts. 
Wagged,imp. & p. p., of Wag
Wagati,n., A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati
Waging,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wage
Waggel,n., The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus
Waggie,n., The pied wagtail.
Waggle,v. i., To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle. 
Wailed,imp. & p. p., of Wail
Wailer,n., One who wails or laments.
Waited,imp. & p. p., of Wait
Waiter,n., One who, or that which, waits; an attendant; a servant in attendance, esp. at table. 
Waived,imp. & p. p., of Waive
Waiver,n., The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege. 
Waking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wake
Waling,n., Same as Wale, n., 4. 
Walked,imp. & p. p., of Walk
Walker,n., One who walks; a pedestrian.
Walkyr,n., See Valkyria.
Walled,imp. & p. p., of Wall
Wallah,n., A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger.
Waller,n., One who builds walls.
Wallet,n., A bag or sack for carrying about the person, as a bag for carrying the necessaries for a journey; a knapsack; a beggar's receptacle for charity; a peddler's pack. 
Wallop,v. i., To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop. 
Wallow,n., To roll one's self about, as in mire; to tumble and roll about; to move lazily or heavily in any medium; to flounder; as, swine wallow in the mire. 
Walnut,n., The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber. The seven or eight known species are all natives of the north temperate zone. 
Walrus,n., A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus
Walter,v. i., To roll or wallow; to welter.
Wamble,v. i., To heave; to be disturbed by nausea; -- said of the stomach.
Wammel,v. i., To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble. 
Wampee,n., A tree (Cookia punctata
Wampum,n., Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament. 
Wander,v. i., To ramble here and there without any certain course or with no definite object in view; to range about; to stroll; to rove; as, to wander over the fields. 
Waning,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wane
Wangan,n., A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen. 
Wanger,n., A pillow for the cheek; a pillow.
Waning,n., The act or process of waning, or decreasing. 
Wanion,n., A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune. 
Wankle,a., Not to be depended on; weak; unstable.
Wanned,a., Made wan, or pale. 
Wanted,imp. & p. p., of Want
Wa'n't,, A colloquial contraction of was not.
Wanton,v. t., Untrained; undisciplined; unrestrained; hence, loose; free; luxuriant; roving; sportive. 
Wapiti,n., The American elk (Cervus Canadensis
Wapper,v. t. & i., To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter. 
Wappet,n., A small yelping cur.
Warred,imp. & p. p., of War
Warble,n., A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling. 
Warded,imp. & p. p., of Ward
Warden,n., A keeper; a guardian; a watchman.
Warder,n., One who wards or keeps; a keeper; a guard.
Warega,, A Brazilian fly whose larvae live in the skin of man and animals, producing painful sores. 
Warely,adv., Cautiously; warily.
Warily,adv., In a wary manner.
Warine,n., A South American monkey, one of the sapajous. 
Warish,v. t., To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal. 
Warmed,imp. & p. p., of Warm
Warmer,n., One who, or that which, warms. 
Warmly,adv., In a warm manner; ardently.
Warmth,n., The quality or state of being warm; gentle heat; as, the warmth of the sun; the warmth of the blood; vital warmth. 
Warned,imp. & p. p., of Warn
Warner,n., One who warns; an admonisher.
Warped,imp. & p. p., of Warp
Warper,n., One who, or that which, warps or twists out of shape. 
Warray,v. t., To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax.
Warren,n., A place privileged, by prescription or grant the king, for keeping certain animals (as hares, conies, partridges, pheasants, etc.
Warrie,v. t., See Warye.
Warrin,n., An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor
Warsaw,n., The black grouper (Epinephelus nigritus
Warted,a., Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule. 
Washed,imp. & p. p., of Wash
Washen,, p. p. of Wash.
Washer,n., One who, or that which, washes. 
Wasite,n., A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium.
Wasium,n., A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium. 
Wasted,imp. & p. p., of Waste
Wastel,n., A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake. 
Waster,v. t., One who, or that which, wastes; one who squanders; one who consumes or expends extravagantly; a spendthrift; a prodigal. 
Wastor,n., A waster; a thief.
Watery,a., Of or pertaining to water; consisting of water.
Wattle,n., A twig or flexible rod; hence, a hurdle made of such rods. 
Waucht,n., Alt. of Waught
Waught,n., A large draught of any liquid.
Waving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wave
Wavure,n., See Waivure.
Waxing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wax
Waylay,v. t., To lie in wait for; to meet or encounter in the way; especially, to watch for the passing of, with a view to seize, rob, or slay; to beset in ambush. 
Weaken,v. t., To make weak; to lessen the strength of; to deprive of strength; to debilitate; to enfeeble; to enervate; as, to weaken the body or the mind; to weaken the hands of a magistrate; to weaken the force of an objection or an argument. 
Weakly,adv., In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly.
Wealth,n., Weal; welfare; prosperity; good.
Weaned,imp. & p. p., of Wean
Weanel,n., A weanling.
Weapon,n., An instrument of offensive of defensive combat; something to fight with; anything used, or designed to be used, in destroying, defeating, or injuring an enemy, as a gun, a sword, etc. 
Weared,imp. & p. p., of Wear
Wearer,n., One who wears or carries as appendant to the body; as, the wearer of a cloak, a sword, a crown, a shackle, etc. 
Weasel,n., Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret. They have a slender, elongated body, and are noted for the quickness of their movements and for their bloodthirsty habit in destroying poultry, rats, etc. The ermine and some other species are brown in summer, and turn white in winter; others are brown at all seasons. 
Weaser,n., The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake.
Weaved,imp. & p. p., of Weave
Weaver,n., One who weaves, or whose occupation is to weave. 
Weazen,a., Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face. 
Webbed,imp. & p. p., of Web
Webber,n., One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster.
Webeye,n., See Web, n., 8. 
Wedded,imp., of Wed
Wedder,n., See Wether.
Wedged,imp. & p. p., of Wedge
Weeded,imp. & p. p., of Weed
Weeder,n., One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious. 
Weekly,a., Of or pertaining to a week, or week days; as, weekly labor. 
Weeper,n., One who weeps; esp., one who sheds tears. 
Weesel,n., See Weasel.
Weever,n., Any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidae. They have a broad spinose head, with the eyes looking upward. The long dorsal fin is supported by numerous strong, sharp spines which cause painful wounds. 
Weevil,n., Any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward. Many of the species are very injurious to cultivated plants. The larvae of some of the species live in nuts, fruit, and grain by eating out the interior, as the plum weevil, or curculio, the nut weevils, and the grain weevil (see under Plum, Nut, and Grain
Weezel,n., See Weasel.
Weight,v. t., The quality of being heavy; that property of bodies by which they tend toward the center of the earth; the effect of gravitative force, especially when expressed in certain units or standards, as pounds, grams, etc. 
Wekeen,n., The meadow pipit.
Welded,imp. & p. p., of Weld
Welder,n., One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding. 
Welked,imp. & p. p., of Welk
Welkin,n., The visible regions of the air; the vault of heaven; the sky.
Welled,imp. & p. p., of Well
Wellat,n., The king parrakeet See under King.
Welted,imp. & p. p., of Welt
Welter,v. i., To roll, as the body of an animal; to tumble about, especially in anything foul or defiling; to wallow. 
Wended,imp. & p. p., of Wend
Wendic,a., Alt. of Wendish
Wennel,n., See Weanel.
Wenona,n., A sand snake (Charina plumbea
Werche,v. t. & i., To work.
Werrey,v. t., To warray.
Wesand,n., See Weasand.
Wetted,, of Wet
Wether,n., A castrated ram.
Wezand,n., See Weasand.
Whahoo,n., An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata
Whaled,imp. & p. p., of Whala
Whaler,n., A vessel or person employed in the whale fishery.
Whally,a., Having the iris of light color; -- said of horses.
Wharfs,pl. , of Wharf
Whatso,indef. pron., Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that.
Wheder,pron. & conj., Whether.
Wheely,a., Circular; suitable to rotation.
Wheeze,v. i., To breathe hard, and with an audible piping or whistling sound, as persons affected with asthma. 
Wheezy,a., Breathing with difficulty and with a wheeze; wheezing. Used also figuratively.
Whelky,a., Having whelks, ridges, or protuberances; hence, streaked; striated. 
Whenas,conj., Whereas; while
Whence,adv., From what place; hence, from what or which source, origin, antecedent, premise, or the like; how; -- used interrogatively. 
Wherry,n., A passenger barge or lighter plying on rivers; also, a kind of light, half-decked vessel used in fishing. 
Wherso,adv., Wheresoever.
Whewer,n., The European widgeon.
Wheyey,a., Of the nature of, or containing, whey; resembling whey; wheyish. 
Whidah,, Any one of several species of finchlike birds belonging to the genus Vidua, native of Asia and Africa. In the breeding season the male has very long, drooping tail feathers. Called also vida finch, whidah finch, whydah bird, whydah finch, widow bird, and widow finch. 
Whider,adv., Whither.
Whiled,imp. & p. p., of While
Whiles,n., Meanwhile; meantime.
Whilom,n., Formerly; once; of old; erewhile; at times.
Whilst,adv., While.
Whimmy,a., Full of whims; whimsical.
Whimsy,n., A whim; a freak; a capricious notion, a fanciful or odd conceit. 
Whined,imp. & p. p., of Whine
Whiner,n., One who, or that which, whines. 
Whinge,v. i., To whine.
Whinny,v. i., To utter the ordinary call or cry of a horse; to neigh.
Whirry,v. i., To whir.
Whisky,n., A light carriage built for rapid motion; -- called also tim-whiskey.
Whited,imp. & p. p., of White
Whiten,v. i., To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms. 
Whites,n. pl., Leucorrh/a.
Whobub,n., Hubbub.
Wholly,adv., In a whole or complete manner; entirely; completely; perfectly.
Whored,imp. & p. p., of Whore
Whurry,v. t., To whisk along quickly; to hurry.
Whydah,, Alt. of Whydah finch
Wicked,a., Having a wick; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a two-wicked lamp. 
Wicken,, Same as Quicken tree.
Wicker,n., A small pliant twig or osier; a rod for making basketwork and the like; a withe.
Wicket,n., A small gate or door, especially one forming part of, or placed near, a larger door or gate; a narrow opening or entrance cut in or beside a door or gate, or the door which is used to close such entrance or aperture. Piers Plowman. 
Wicopy,n., See Leatherwood.
Widely,adv., In a wide manner; to a wide degree or extent; far; extensively; as, the gospel was widely disseminated by the apostles. 
Widish,a., Moderately wide.
Widual,a., Of or pertaining to a widow; vidual.
Wieldy,a., Capable of being wielded; manageable; wieldable; -- opposed to unwieldy.
Wifely,a., Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife.
Wigged,imp. & p. p., of Wig
Wigeon,n., A widgeon.
Wigged,a., Having the head covered with a wig; wearing a wig.
Wiggle,v. t., To move to and fro with a quick, jerking motion; to bend rapidly, or with a wavering motion, from side to side; to wag; to squirm; to wriggle; as, the dog wiggles his tail; the tadpole wiggles in the water. 
Wigher,v. i., To neigh; to whinny.
Wigwag,v. t., To signal by means of a flag waved from side to side according to a code adopted for the purpose.
Wigwam,n., An Indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee. 
Wilded,a., Become wild.
Wilder,a., To bewilder; to perplex.
Wildly,adv., In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly.
Wilful,n., Alt. of Wilfulness
Willed,imp. & p. p., of Will
Willer,n., One who wills.
Willet,n., A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata
Willow,n., Any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, including many species, most of which are characterized often used as an emblem of sorrow, desolation, or desertion.   A wreath of willow to show my forsaken plight.   Sir W. Scott. Hence, a lover forsaken by, or having lost, the person beloved, is said to wear the willow. 
Wilton,, A kind of carpet woven with loops like the Brussels, but differing from it in having the loops cut so as to form an elastic velvet pile; -- so called because made originally at Wilton, England. 
Wimble,n., An instrument for boring holes, turned by a handle. 
Wimple,n., A covering of silk, linen, or other material, for the neck and chin, formerly worn by women as an outdoor protection, and still retained in the dress of nuns. 
Winced,imp. & p. p., of Wince
Wincer,n., One who, or that which, winces, shrinks, or kicks. 
Wincey,n., Linsey-woolsey.
Winded,, of Wind
Windas,n., See 3d Windlass.
Winder,n., One who, or that which, winds; hence, a creeping or winding plant. 
Windle,n., A spindle; a kind of reel; a winch.
Window,n., An opening in the wall of a building for the admission of light and air, usually closed by casements or sashes containing some transparent material, as glass, and capable of being opened and shut at pleasure. 
Winery,n., A place where grapes are converted into wine.
Winged,imp. & p. p., of Wing
Winger,n., One of the casks stowed in the wings of a vessel's hold, being smaller than such as are stowed more amidships. 
Winked,imp. & p. p., of Wink
Winker,n., One who winks.
Winkle,n., Any periwinkle.
Winner,n., One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming. 
Winnew,n., To separate, and drive off, the chaff from by means of wind; to fan; as, to winnow grain. 
Winnow,v. i., To separate chaff from grain.
Winrow,n., A windrow.
Winter,n., The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year.
Wintry,a., Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery. 
Wiping,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wipe
Wirble,v. i., To whirl; to eddy.
Wirche,v. i. & t., To work
Wiring,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wire
Wisard,n., See Wizard.
Wisdom,a., The quality of being wise; knowledge, and the capacity to make due use of it; knowledge of the best ends and the best means; discernment and judgment; discretion; sagacity; skill; dexterity. 
Wisely,adv., In a wise manner; prudently; judiciously; discreetly; with wisdom.
Wished,imp. & p. p., of Wish
Wisher,n., One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish.
Wishly,adv., According to desire; longingly; with wishes.
Wisket,n., A whisket, or basket. 
Wisped,imp. & p. p., of Wisp
Wispen,a., Formed of a wisp, or of wisp; as, a wispen broom. 
Wistit,n., A small South American monkey; a marmoset.
Wistly,adv., Attentively; observingly.
Witful,a., Wise; sensible.
Withal,adv., With this; with that.
Withed,imp. & p. p., of Withe
Wither,n., To fade; to lose freshness; to become sapless; to become sapless; to dry or shrivel up.
Within,prep., In the inner or interior part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors. 
Witing,v., Knowledge.
Witted,a., Having (such
Witily,adv., In a witty manner; wisely; ingeniously; artfully; with it; with a delicate turn or phrase, or with an ingenious association of ideas. 
Wittol,n., The wheatear.
Witwal,n., Alt. of Witwall
Wiving,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wive
Wively,a., Wifely.
Wivern,n., A fabulous two-legged, winged creature, like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon, and without spurs. 
Wizard,n., A wise man; a sage.
Woaded,a., Colored or stained with woad.
Wobble,v. i., See Wabble.
Woeful,a., Alt. of Woful
Wolves,pl. , of Wolf
Wombat,n., Any one of three species of Australian burrowing marsupials of the genus Phascolomys, especially the common species (P. ursinus
Wonder,n., That emotion which is excited by novelty, or the presentation to the sight or mind of something new, unusual, strange, great, extraordinary, or not well understood; surprise; astonishment; admiration; amazement. 
Wonger,n., See Wanger.
Woning,n., Dwelling.
Wonted,, of Wont
Wooing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Woo
Wooded,imp. & p. p., of Wood
Wooden,a., Made or consisting of wood; pertaining to, or resembling, wood; as, a wooden box; a wooden leg; a wooden wedding. 
Woodly,adv., In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously. 
Wood's,, A fusible alloy consisting of one or two parts of cadmium, two parts of tin, four of lead, with seven or eight part of bismuth. It melts at from 66? to 71? C. See Fusible metal, under Fusible. 
Woodsy,a., Of or pertaining to the woods or forest.
Woohoo,n., The sailfish.
Wooled,a., Having (such
Woolen,a., Made of wool; consisting of wool; as, woolen goods. 
Woolly,a., Consisting of wool; as, a woolly covering; a woolly fleece. 
Wooyen,n., See Yuen.
Worble,n., See Wormil.
Worded,imp. & p. p., of Word
Worder,n., A speaker.
Wordle,n., One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of an adjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc. 
Worked,imp. & p. p., of Work
Worker,n., One who, or that which, works; a laborer; a performer; as, a worker in brass. 
Wormed,imp. & p. p., of Worm
Wormal,n., See Wormil.
Wormed,a., Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber. 
Wormil,n., Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong to various species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle are often infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble, and worble. 
Wormul,n., See Wornil.
Wornil,n., See Wormil.
Worral,n., Alt. of Worrel
Worrel,n., An Egyptian fork-tongued lizard, about four feet long when full grown. 
Worrit,v. t., To worry; to annoy.
Worsen,v. t., To make worse; to deteriorate; to impair.
Worser,a., Worse.
Worthy,n., Having worth or excellence; possessing merit; valuable; deserving; estimable; excellent; virtuous.
Wotest,, Alt. of Wottest
Woteth,, Alt. of Wotteth
Woulfe,n., A kind of wash bottle with two or three necks; -- so called after the inventor, Peter Woulfe, an English chemist. 
Woundy,a., Excessive.
Wraith,n., An apparition of a person in his exact likeness, seen before death, or a little after; hence, an apparition; a specter; a vision; an unreal image. 
Wranny,n., The common wren.
Wrasse,n., Any one of numerous edible, marine, spiny-finned fishes of the genus Labrus, of which several species are found in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic coast of Europe. Many of the species are bright-colored. 
Wrathy,a., Very angry.
Wreath,n., Something twisted, intertwined, or curled; as, a wreath of smoke; a wreath of flowers. 
Wreche,n., Wreak.
Wreeke,v. t., See 2d Wreak.
Wrench,v. t., Trick; deceit; fraud; stratagem.
Wretch,v. t., A miserable person; one profoundly unhappy.
Wright,n., One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright, etc. 
Writer,n., One who writes, or has written; a scribe; a clerk. 
Writhe,v. t., To twist; to turn; now, usually, to twist or turn so as to distort; to wring. 
Wroken,, p. p. of Wreak.
Wrying,p. pr. & vb. n., of Wry
Wurmal,n., See Wormil.
Wyvern,n., Same as Wiver.
Xenium,n., A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign ambassador. 
Xenomi,n. pl., A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis
Xeriff,n., A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat. 
Xylate,n., A salt of xylic acid.
Xylene,n., Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids, C6H4.(CH3
Xylite,n., A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits.
Xyloid,a., Resembling wood; having the nature of wood.
Xystus,n., A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather. 
Xyster,n., An instrument for scraping bones.
Yacare,n., A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops
Yaffle,n., The European green woodpecker (Picus, / Genius, viridis
Yakare,n., Same as Yacare.
Yaksha,n., A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth. 
Yanked,imp. & p. p., of Yank
Yankee,n., A nickname for a native or citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also, applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United States. 
Yaourt,n., A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks. 
Yapock,n., A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus
Yarage,a., The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship. 
Yarely,adv., In a yare manner.
Yarnen,a., Made of yarn; consisting of yarn.
Yarnut,n., See Yernut.
Yarrow,n., An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium
Yauper,n., One who, or that which, yaups. 
Yaupon,n., A shrub (Ilex Cassine
Yawing,p. pr. & vb. n., of Yaw
Yawned,imp. & p. p., of Yawn
Yeaned,imp. & p. p., of Yean
Yeared,a., Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged.
Yearly,a., Happening, accruing, or coming every year; annual; as, a yearly income; a yearly feast. 
Yearth,n., The earth.
Yeasty,a., Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast. 
Yelled,imp. & p. p., of Yell
Yellow,superl., Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green. 
Yelped,imp. & p. p., of Yelp
Yelper,n., An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise. 
Yenite,n., A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite.
Yeomen,pl. , of Yeoman
Yeoman,n., A common man, or one of the commonly of the first or most respectable class; a freeholder; a man free born. 
Yerked,imp. & p. p., of Yerk
Yernut,n., An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d
Yester,a., Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday.
Yezidi,n., Same as Izedi.
Yholde,, p. p. of Hold.
Yliche,a. & adv., Alt. of Ylike
Ymaked,p. p., Made.
Ynambu,n., A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens
Ynough,a., Alt. of Ynow
Yockel,n., The yaffle.
Yodled,, of Yodle
Yodler,n., One who yodels.
Yoicks,interj., A cry of encouragement to foxhounds.
Yoking,p. pr. & vb. n., of Yoke
Yolden,p. p., Yielded.
Yonder,adv., At a distance, but within view. 
Yonker,n., A young fellow; a younker.
Yorker,n., A tice.
Youpon,n., Same as Yaupon.
Youths,pl. , of Youth
Youthy,a., Young.
Yowley,n., The European yellow-hammer.
Ypight,p. p., See Pight.
Yronne,p. p., Run.
Yttria,n., The oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium. 
Yttric,a., Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, yttrium. 
Yuckel,n., Same as Yockel.
Zabism,n., See Sabianism.
Zabian,a. & n., See Sabian.
Zachun,n., An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny tree (Balanites Aegyptiaca
Zaffer,n., A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand or quartz, as a dark earthy powder. It consists of crude cobalt oxide, or of an impure cobalt arseniate. It is used in porcelain painting, and in enameling pottery, to produce a blue color, and is often confounded with smalt, from which, however, it is distinct, as it contains no potash. The name is often loosely applied to mixtures of zaffer proper with silica, or oxides of iron, manganese, etc. 
Zaimet,n., A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue.
Zamang,n., An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman
Zambos,pl. , of Zambo
Zamite,n., A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia.
Zander,n., A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca
Zanies,pl. , of Zany
Zareba,n., An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes, etc. 
Zarthe,n., A European bream (Abramis vimba
Zealed,a., Full of zeal; characterized by zeal.
Zealot,n., One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan. 
Zechin,n., See Sequin.
Zeekoe,n., A hippopotamus.
Zehner,n., An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents. 
Zenana,n., The part of a dwelling appropriated to women.
Zendik,n., An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies. 
Zenick,n., A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla
Zenith,n., That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to nadir.
Zephyr,n., The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze. 
Zequin,n., See Sequin.
Zeriba,n., Same as Zareba.
Zeroes,pl. , of Zero
Zested,imp. & p. p., of Zest
Zeugma,n., A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as,   hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;   where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma. 
Zibeth,n., A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha
Zigger,v. i., Alt. of Zighyr
Zighyr,v. i., Same as Sicker.
Zigzag,n., Something that has short turns or angles.
Zillah,n., A district or local division, as of a province. 
Zinced,, of Zinc
Zincic,a., Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous. 
Zincky,a., Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance. 
Zingel,n., A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel
Zinnia,n., Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms. Zinnia elegans is the commonest species in cultivation. 
Zircon,n., A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown or gray color. It consists of silica and zirconia. A red variety, used as a gem, is called hyacinth. Colorless, pale-yellow or smoky-brown varieties from Ceylon are called jargon. 
Zither,n., An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany. It has from thirty to forty wires strung across a shallow sounding-board, which lies horizontally on a table before the performer, who uses both hands in playing on it. [Not to be confounded with the old lute-shaped cittern, or cithern.] 
Zodiac,n., An imaginary belt in the heavens, 16? or 18? broad, in the middle of which is the ecliptic, or sun's path. It comprises the twelve constellations, which one constituted, and from which were named, the twelve signs of the zodiac. 
Zonate,a., Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in certain red algae. 
Zonnar,n., See Zonar.
Zonule,n., A little zone, or girdle. 
Zonure,n., Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus Zonura, common in rocky situations. 
Zoonic,a., Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.
Zootic,a., Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.
Zoozoo,n., The wood pigeon.
Zoster,n., Shingles.
Zouave,n., One of an active and hardy body of soldiers in the French service, originally Arabs, but now composed of Frenchmen who wear the Arab dress. 
Zounds,interj., An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of anger or wonder. 
Zoutch,v. t., To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them. 
Zufolo,n., A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used to teach birds. 
Zuisin,n., The American widgeon.
Zygoma,n., The jugal, malar, or cheek bone. 
Zymase,n., A soluble ferment, or enzyme. See Enzyme. 
Zymome,n., A glutinous substance, insoluble in alcohol, resembling legumin; -- now called vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, or gluten casein. 
Zymose,n., Invertin.
Zythem,n., See Zythum.
Zythum,n., A kind of ancient malt beverage; a liquor made from malt and wheat.
